Trying to parse out what's happening is
increasingly difficult and the market is
obviously not necessarily buying that.
>> The markets are still I think under
underestimating that risk.
>> I think there is some positive momentum.
>> We aren't broad sellers of US equities
here.
>> Potential inflation reaceleration in the
second half of the year is the biggest
risk to the equity market.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz and An
Marie Hordern.
Good morning live from New York. This is
Bloomberg surveillance. Traders
remaining optimistic with futures
building on the best week of gains this
year. Coming into another week of
ultimatums with 38 hours until a new
deadline set by President Trump to reach
a deal and key data coming later this
week with a look toward how much oil
prices have already boosted inflation.
Danny Burgerer in the hot seat. Thank
you so much. John Pharaoh and Amarie are
both off today. What a week where we
kind of get a gut check of what has
actually changed in the US economy.
>> It also feels like another week where
every single thing is competing for the
market's attention. Be it the headline
pingpong, the truths we get from the
president, the headlines out of Iran,
and you mentioned it too. We get this
economic data also. CPI, which is
expected to be the biggest increase
since 2022 on a headline level, and
long-term auctions for bonds, long-term
bonds. What's going to be the most
important thing for the market for now?
Just chugging along. Yeah, chugging
along and trying to look through some of
the potential increase in escalation uh
risk. The idea that we could be looking
at something like bombing of some of the
power plants in Iran, potential
retaliation, an escalation in the Middle
East, a broader war, still stocks
looking through this, what is the signal
after we just saw that best week going
back to November of last year. And the
signal last week was there are talks
happening, but what's the latest there?
Axio saying that they're negotiating a
48 hour ceasefire, but Iran just coming
out and saying that they wouldn't agree
to a ceasefire. It allows people to
regroup. And at the same time,
reportedly those talks have hit a wall.
The optimism we priced in last week,
does it stand? But it's a market that
feels like it wants to rally at every
chance it gets. It certainly has
rebounded.
>> It wants to rally when you talk about
stocks, not when you talk about bonds.
And part of that is because of what's
coming up this week. We get, of course,
uh, core PCE on Thursday. We get CPI on
Friday. We get personal income and
spending also on Thursday. Before that,
we get the meeting minutes from the
Federal Reserve on Wednesday. A question
here about how much inflation risk is
going to put back on the table not only
a Fed that is not going to move uh down,
but a Fed that could potentially hike.
>> And then with the jobs number in hand on
Friday that looked remarkably strong,
taking cuts off of the table, how much
does that feed into it? But to bring it
back around to stocks, at what point
does that start to impact risk assets
too? Neil Duta was talking about this
last week that the hit given gas prices
and inflation is about.5 percentage
points of personal spending for the US
consumer and expectations for earnings
have not budged at all. This is the
mystery that a lot of people are trying
to put together right now. People are
putting it together and saying, "Ah,
it's fine for us." We're seeing a little
bit of an inflection higher, about a
quarter% gain to futures after the long
weekend. You're seeing the euro just
inching a bit higher after a brutal uh
couple of weeks so far. The euro dollar
at 115. 10-year yields inflecting up
just a basis point. Interesting to note,
tenure yields fell eight basis points
last week, which is the most since the
end of February. And Brent just taking a
little bit of a breather down 4/10en of
a percent on the hopes of some sort of
resol resolution. Coming up this hour,
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth with
stocks looking for a fourth day of
gains. Norman Rule of CSIS as President
Trump gives Iran a new deadline and
Betsy Stevenson of University of
Michigan and why the labor market may
not be as healthy as Friday's data
suggested. We begin this hour with
stocks pushing higher as markets keep a
cautious eye on the Middle East. Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Wealth writing, "We
see potential for a continued tactical
bounce, but we do not see markets as out
of the woods for volatility." Cameron
joins us now. Cameron, thank you so much
for being with us. I want to just start
with the idea of what dip is buyable.
Are we looking at something that
actually cheapens stocks enough to just
hold your nose and buy?
>> Yeah, we got to the point where markets
traded down to 19 times forward earnings
on the S&P 500. That's not historically
cheap. It's cheaper than it was, of
course. Back at the end of October, we
traded to 23 times forward. But I think
the important thing to note is that as
of Monday of last week, we did get a
little bit oversold on a short-term
basis, which is why we think the markets
were able to rally. But we expect
volatility to continue because there
still is so much optimism that this war
will end quickly and it won't have a big
impact on growth. And you can see that
from so many angles. Look at the Brent
futures forward curve where you have
this expectation that oil prices will
return back to normal fairly quickly.
Look at high yield spreads remaining
contained. Valuation still at 19 and a
half times forward. The fact that GDP
estimates are still 2.3%. And add on top
of that the earnings estimates have gone
up for 26 and 27. So there's still a
fair amount of optimism even though we
have seen some of the positioning shake
loose and some of the valuations get
compressed.
>> There two ways to look at this. On one
hand, you could say, "Wow, markets are
really complacent. They're not looking
at the potential tail risks." The other
way to look at this is Marcus tend to be
right and more level-headed in looking
through geopolitics. And if they're all
saying the same thing, well, who am I to
fight them? So, where do you stand on
that?
>> So, one of the reasons why you can look
through geopolitics is usually analysts
get too scared too fast, which means
that they cut their estimates way too
much and then end up having to chase
their estimates higher. We have a very
simple rule. Markets like it when
estimates are going up. They don't like
it when estimates are going down. But if
you never cut your estimates, it means
that you still have a very high bar to
surprise to the upside. And that's a big
difference versus what we got last year
in 2025 going back to times like 2022 or
even CO where analysts were so quick to
cut their estimates that it created a
low bar to surprise to the upside. Now
the bar is still very high.
>> So everyone is living with that scar. I
wonder if it's even though across
different sectors. If it's the same with
a consumer that might be facing higher
oil and energy prices. If it's the same
for utilities, if it's the same, is it a
broad brush right now?
>> Yeah. I think the most fascinating thing
is that what's been driving earnings
estimates higher over the course of the
last month has been not things related
to the oil or energy shock. It has been
the fact that it's been semiconductors,
but the market's not giving credit to
semiconductors for the big earnings
revisions higher because you've seen
their valuations get compressed by 30%.
So effectively the one area that we can
count on for earnings growth is the one
area where the market's not giving it
credit.
>> I have to say something like
semiconductors, those chipm stocks, a
lot of it has felt very momentumy and
that seemed to be in the driving seat
for a lot of the market shakeout that
we've seen. To what degree has market
positioning reset and more fundamentals
will dictate the price action?
>> Yeah. So if we look at consolidated
positioning, which Deutsche Bank has a
great measure of that, the positioning
has reset to about the 20th percentile.
So, not nearly as washed out as we got
to at the lows during liberation day,
but suggests that if news were to get
better, more people could get dragged
into this market. We have seen some
positioning resets when it comes to
meggaap growth as well, which just
suggests that again better news could
draw more people in.
>> We're talking to Cameron Dawson right
now and of course this is a a very
volatile moment and we're getting some
headlines from Iran, from the foreign
ministry saying that Iran demands the
end to the war. Iran continues to go on
to say that no rational person would
agree to a ceasefire, talking about a
ceasefire meaning creating just simply a
short pause to regroup. A lot of
questions about noise versus signal. And
Cameron, I'm curious from your
perspective how you take some of the
incurrent coming rhetoric both from the
US, from Iran, from allies, from
unreported sources, and get a sense of
whether we're moving closer to some sort
of resolution, whether we're moving
closer to some sort of escalation that
could lead to real damage in facilities
in the region.
>> Yeah, look, it's incredibly difficult.
And I think that last point is probably
the most important one, which is that
what kind of damage are we seeing that
does not allow oil prices to return to
their pre-war levels? Effectively, we've
been arguing it's not where oil prices
go, it's where they stay. And if they
stay at elevated levels because of this
damage, it just suggests that we don't
get an easing of pressures on the US
consumer. And if we look, it's really
gasoline prices that matter most, but
also considering things like diesel. And
the US consumer does not have a lot of
room to absorb an oil supply shock. If
you look at the last three months, the
average jobs added was 68,000. Contrast
that to 2022. We were adding 400,000
jobs on average. A lot more room with a
lot more wage growth to absorb the
increase in oil prices.
>> That's the reason why this week is going
to be so important for so many people.
The fact that we get core PCE data, that
key metric that the Fed looks at, and
then CPI on Friday gives a sense about
how much some of these gasoline prices,
these diesel prices are already plowing
into uh consumer spending. How will that
affect your view? I mean, could this be
a turning point for you in some in some
ways to just understand what damage is
actually being done to the US economy?
>> I think it will be incredibly important.
The US economy after all is twothirds of
of overall econ or US consumers
twothirds of overall economic growth.
And you have to appreciate that over the
last year we've seen a big difference
between the growth in personal income
which has been flat to down versus
personal spending which has been very
robust. And the gap between those two
has been driven by a willing down of the
savings rate which is made possible by a
very strong wealth effect which is made
possible ve by a very strong equity
market. So if we continue to be in this
environment where equity markets come
under pressure, you start to lose one of
those things that has allowed consumers
to continue to spend so robustly even in
the face of falling real income growth.
One of the conversations around COVID of
why the consumer was strong and why
markets rebounded was the huge amounts
of fiscal stimulus put into the market.
This time around, it's also a government
that has less room. We're already
running large deficits. President Trump
just asking for a huge allocation to
defense in his most recent budget. How
does that alter things with the one big
beautiful bill already out there? Maybe
an inability to keep pumping stimulus.
>> It gives you a lot fewer degrees of
freedom. You're going in with a deficit
of GD to GDP at 6 and a.5% with yields
already higher and inflation already
higher at 3.1% on core PC which is
expected to come in later this week
which just suggests that even if you
want to do stimulus there may be less
market appetite to be able to absorb
some of that stimulus which just means
that we might just have to take our
medicine when it comes to this supply
shock
>> which is the reason why people keep
looking at that 10-year yield to
understand what the response mechanism
is in bond markets to any additional
spending. Cameron Dawson, wonderful to
see you as always. Cameron Dawson of New
Edge Wealth. This is the key question
that I have, Danny, is that why haven't
you seen the 10-year yield act more as a
ballast, more as a haven? Even today,
the increase in yields is significantly
more uh than the increase that you're
seeing, the commensurate increase in in
risk assets. It seems like there's
something else going on here.
>> And it's not even just inflation. If you
look at what the market is pricing for
inflation, that hasn't moved as much as
the tenure suggests. It's this whole
idea of yes, the US is more insulated
when it comes to an oil shock because
we're an energy producer, but we're
running one of the highest deficits of
any advanced nation. So, in that way,
the US is less isolated. The bond
auctions will be interesting. So far,
there hasn't been any big ruptures, but
it's the continued story of higher
deficits just a slow eating away at
confidence of this American bond market.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your bloomber brief with the hierra on
antihira.
>> Good morning, Lisa. President Donald
Trump threatening to destroy Iran's
power plant starting tomorrow if Thrron
doesn't make a deal. Iran is rejecting
Trump's latest ultimate ultimatum,
saying it will fully open the straight
to Hormuse when war damage is
compensated. The president is set to
hold a news conference today at 1 p.m.
Eastern.
The head of the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps intelligence organization
was killed in a strike by US and Israeli
forces. Iran's semiofficial Fars news
agency reporting the death of Major
General Sed Majid Kam Kamei early this
morning. And Russia's key Black Sea oil
terminal caught fire following an
overnight drone attack according to
satellite images from NASA. This attack
coming as Ukraine expects Steve Wickoff
and Jared Kushner to lead a US
delegation to Kev this month. That's a
brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Up next, one threat
after another.
>> You don't do a ceasefire when you're
literally obliterating the other side.
>> We are decimating. They've got no
anything. If there is no deal, we are
going to hit each and every one of their
electric generating plants very hard.
>> Norman Rule of CSIS joining next. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
Good morning. And this is Bloomberg
surveillance trying to shake off another
uh day of headline roulette that not
necessarily bleeding into markets.
You're seeing an inflection higher about
a quarter percent higher on futures
right now on the S&P. You're seeing the
euro just slightly edging higher still
off if you think about where it's been
120 back in January. And 10-year yields
just inching a little bit higher 435
ahead of some key economic data. The
real story has been in the oil space.
And when you take a look at the June
contract for both Brent and WTI, you can
see how far it has come from about $60
earlier this year to now $108 for the
Brent contract. Uh it is a little bit
lower potentially because of
deescalation. WTI that June contract is
$96.78.
Under surveillance this morning, one
threat after another.
>> You don't do a ceasefire when you're
literally obliterating the other side.
>> We are decimating. They've got no
anything. They have to open up the
straight
of Trump. I mean, Harmuth.
>> We'll hit some bridges. We got a couple
of nice bridges in mind.
>> We are going to hit them extremely hard
over the next two to three weeks. We're
going to bring them back to the stone
ages where they belong. If there is no
deal, we are going to hit each and every
one of their electric generating plants
very hard.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
vowing to destroy key Iranian
infrastructure if the state of Hermuz is
not reopened by tomorrow with mediators
reportedly pushing for a lastminute deal
to end the war. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now from Washington
with a press conference coming up later
today. Tyler, what are we expecting?
>> Well, hey Lisa, good morning. At this
point, there's real questions here about
whether or not there's going to be
escalation or deescalation. As President
Trump posted over the weekend that he
was extending his deadline to tomorrow
at 8:00 p.m. Eastern. And there are
reports first by Axios and now also by
the Associated Press that the US, Iran,
and regional mediators are working on a
potential 45day ceasefire. But there are
still questions that need to be answered
about exactly what would go into a
ceasefire and whether or not Iran is
willing to come to the table as they
continue hardline stance even this
morning. And the reporting indicates
that no one appears to think that there
will be a full reopening of the straight
of Hermuz as part of any potential
ceasefire period. Now, an Iranian
official did say over the weekend that
the country is going to be undeterred in
the face of President Trump's threats
and also added that the straight of
Hermuz will not open until damages from
the war are quote fully compensated by
tolls being charged on ships. Now, we
can point out there's been some
movement, if you will, when it comes to
the strait. Oman's foreign minister did
say over the weekend it's been in
dialogue with Iran on some potential
solutions to restore flows, though
didn't provide additional details. But
Iran did say that Iraqi flagged vessels
would be exempt from restrictions in a
potentially really significant
development. That depends on whether or
not shippers are willing to take that
risk. Lisa, at this point, no sign that
the fighting is really abading. We heard
from Israeli officials over the weekend
confirmed that they've hit 120 targets
in the past 24 hours, but they also say
that they believe Iran still has the
capability of more than 1,000 missiles
that can hit their country. Tyler
Kendall, thank you so much as always.
Joining us now is Norman Rule, former
senior US intelligence official and
senior adviser at CSIS. Norm, I was
really looking forward to speaking with
you all weekend because I was thinking
what would your response be to President
Trump's tweet yesterday, a truth social
post where he said Tuesday will be power
plant day and bridge day all wrapped
wrapped up in one in Iran. What was your
response to this?
Well, the current situation must be best
understood as doing several streams of
activity at once. You should look at the
social media statements, the ongoing
military activity is both being in
support of a diplomatic process which is
aimed to prevent this imminent uh
escalation which I believe the president
is serious uh about uh of US and Israeli
attacks on Iranian infrastructure uh
which will likely lead to an increase of
Iranian attacks on Gulf infrastructure.
So we're looking at a the next 48 to 72
hours as being a pivotal time because of
the uh uh significant uh diplomatic u um
uh activity.
>> Some of those reports though on the
diplomatic activity, Norman, the
negotiations happening with allies
suggest that they have come to a stall
that there hasn't been much movement.
What does that mean as we approach a new
deadline, a Tuesday deadline from the
president of 8 p.m. ET? Well, diplomatic
progress was never assured. In fact, it
was generally like it's going to be
unlikely for several reasons. Iran is
not looking for a temporary ceasefire.
Iran's uh playing cards are the straight
of Hormuz and retaining the buried
uranium and it's looking for a permanent
ceasefire. It's looking for what it
calls reparations for the war and
control of the straight of Hormuz if
possible. The United States is looking
for a temporary ceasefire and a process
by which it can achieve uh the 15 uh uh
points that it put forward regarding
Iran's missile program, nuclear program,
uh its regional adventurism uh and of
course not leaving the straight of
Hormuz uh under Iran's control. So
there's quite a gap between the two
sides. Uh from Iran's perspective, it
sees little reason to cooperate at at
this time. So it's uh it's really
unlikely that we'll see significant
progress. So that's why the military
activity that you're seeing the last 24
hours and the intensity of the
president's statement um were so
important this weekend,
>> Norman. And at the same time as as Tyler
Kendall laid out, there have been
reports of very slowly but still more
ships crossing the straight of Hormuse.
Iraq telling that its Asian traders that
it's been able to get more out. There
have been reports of both a French and a
Japanese flag vessel getting through the
straight of Hormuse. Does this perhaps
represent a new change and a new normal
where you have this war happening in the
background, but at the same time, as
long as it has Iran's permission, ships
able to cross through the straight of
Hormuz.
>> It's too early to say. If you're Iran,
what you want to do right now is to
demonstrate that you have control over
the straight of Hormuz. And that means
you put out a limited number of ships
from as many countries as possible so
that you can show that you are able to
control the strait. But you don't allow
so many ships that you allow oil prices
to soften. Uh for example, there were
also reports today the two LG ships from
Qatar on their way to China uh uh were
turned back. Now that may indicate any
those reports aren't confirmed. It may
not be true. But if correct that shows
there may be coordination problems and
the political process may not be uh may
not be smooth. But if you're Iran, you
do want a number of ships from a number
of countries to go through, but just not
a whole lot of ships got that enough
they're enough to lower oil prices
because high oil prices support the
Iranian pressure campaign.
>> Norm, what do we know about the Iranian
regime structure right now? What's left
of it? Who's leading things? Exactly how
solid it really is?
>> Well, what we do know are two things.
first, although the regime is under
pressure uh and we've seen over the
weekend that the Israelis have
reportedly been able to kill the head of
uh the IRGC, the Revolutionary Guard
Intelligence, uh uh organization, a a
many year veteran, an important uh uh
and malign actor. Uh the or the
government does appear to be
increasingly cohesive to some degree.
It's able to coordinate activities,
negotiations with the US, some of their
operations with Hezbollah, their
negotiations with other countries on
oil. It's it has an organizational
structure of some sort, but it's not
it's not a it's not a full-blown
government. This is not they're not
having cabinet meetings. This is not a
normalized uh regime.
>> How different does winning look for this
regime versus say the United States?
Well, for this regime, it's looking for
survival. It's looking to be the
regional hedgemen. It's looking to expel
the United States, preferably in a
humiliated fashion. It's looking to
control the straight of Hormuz. And by
the way, control the trade of Hormuz
also means controlling the economies of
the GCC. If you can control the shipping
into the GCC, you control the type of
shipping, which means the source of
supply of of into the GCC, that's a
strangle hold on those economies in the
future, which also mean allows you to
influence the global economy at some
point in the future if you choose to do
so. That's a tremendous strategic
capacity that Iran would gain. How does
the US win from their perspective, which
is to not allow that to happen and to
potentially remove the Iranian
leadership? Well, the US position is in
essence containing Iran or constraining
Iran, not necessarily removing the
regime per se, although I'm sure that
would be a a goal of the administration
in many, but in essence uh uh defanging
Iran of its strategic uh uh uh threat uh
constraining Iran uh from its capacity
to to uh threaten the straight of Hormuz
and and allowing Iran's neighbors to
defend themselves and restore their role
in the international community. that
those would be primary goals among
others.
>> Norman Rule of CSIS, thank you so much
for being with us. Here's the issue,
right? The asymmetric warfare that
continues to plague this particular
conflict that right now winning for the
Iranian regime, the RGC is simply
survival. And for the US, it's something
more complicated. And it is more
complicated by the fact that there has
been a back and forth in exactly what
the objectives of this are. At times,
the president has said that they can
leave and the straight of Hormuse will
be everyone else's problems to deal
with. Again this weekend we get these
ultimatums that the strait needs to be
opened. We don't know whether the
president will follow through on these
on these threats. But what we do know is
that Iran has this very very powerful
leverage and that dictates a lot going
from here. But will this be the new
normal? Again, it's something Marco
Papic from BCA calls a new kinetic
equilibrium where war continues but Iran
uses this leverage and let some ships
through and will oil increasingly maybe
trade on that and not necessarily the
president's threats. People are watching
the forward contracts to understand just
how much of that risk premia start to
get priced in. We'll be speaking with
that coming up next. Dan Pickering of
Pickering Energy Partners as oil traders
weigh mixed signals from the Middle
East. Plus that key point that Daniel
was making about long-term premiums that
are placed on some of these commodities.
Plus, Yhierra on with your morning
movers. Memory stocks continuing to rise
in the pre-market after a bleep a slight
blip on the heels of some potential bad
news. Mrs. Bloomberg.
Right now, you're seeing markets trying
to look on the bright side after a long
weekend of a lot of headlines. You're
seeing futures just inlecting a bit
upward, up about 210 of a percent on the
S&P. A more significant rally fed by the
memory stocks. We'll get to that in just
a second. with the NASDAQ futures up
about a half a percent and the Russell
2000 up similarly with an expectation
that consumer cyclicals can keep
rebounding despite the fact that there's
real pressure on oil prices attention
right now Danny emerging under the
surface
>> there is because gasoline is now above
maybe it's a psychological threshold of
the average being above $4 and again you
don't have earnings estimates moving it
Cameron Dawson was just talking about
the fact that for 27 they've been going
up. If anything, the direction has been
lifting them higher. We haven't really
priced in any sort of consumer slowdown
because we've been burnt every time
we've tried to do that before. The
consumer keeps spending and the data has
suggested that as well.
>> And the data has been surprising to the
upside, notwithstanding, of course, the
incredible upside surprise on Friday
from the non-farm payrolls report. This
is the tugof-war that future that uh
that bond yields are dealing with right
now. Twos and tens in the United States,
both inflecting just a little bit
higher, about a basis point each. Last
week we saw 10-year yields fall by eight
basis points. Two-year yields fall by
seven basis points. That's the most
since the end of February. Not as
significant of a rally in the right
direction as we saw from equities that
had the best rally of the year. This is
the reason why. Is this an economy that
is good enough to look through this,
allow the Fed to potentially avoid
cutting rates and frankly allow
inflation to get more entrenched?
>> Still, it is inflation that continues to
miss the Fed's target. And we are
spending more through this conflict too.
is costing huge sums of money. The Trump
administration is asking for even more
money. I think it's a 44% increase in
the defense budget, which is something
that hasn't happened in quite a few
years at this point. Do you also start
to get that more priced in that deficits
look more concerning? It's been a head
fake every time so far, but if you get a
consumer that's slowing down because of
oil prices, a president that wants to
give more stimulus ahead of the midterms
and more military spending, where does
that leave us?
>> And it really does come down to how high
oil prices go and for how long. Right
now, you're seeing the June contract for
both Brent and WTI just inching a little
lower. Still significantly higher than
where they were to start the year.
$108.19 for Brent. WTI $96.74.
Three hours away from the cash open.
Here are your morning movers with the
Antihira. Hi, Lisa. The market optimism
over a possible ceasefire is helping to
lift the tech stocks including memory
chip stocks. But you also have this from
VJ Rash over at Mazu Ho saying that now
is a time to buy the weakness in names
like Micron and SanDisk with Micron down
some 20% from its most recent peak. He
says the sell-off is overdone saying
that these companies still have pricing
power and AI demand and demand for their
chips just continues to grow. Moving on
to another chip maker, Nvidia uh up half
a percent, trimming some gains after a
positive read through from its from its
partner Han High, which reported nearly
30% sales growth last quarter with a lot
of that strength tied to demand for its
AI servers, which of course Nvidia
powers. And we end on shares of Echoar.
They are rising uh 2% in the pre-market
on SpaceX's ambitions to target a $2
trillion valuation. Uh SpaceX and Echoar
are partners with agreements on
everything from spectrum to satellites.
So a bigger, betterfunded uh SpaceX
could lead to more business for this
company. Lisa,
>> thank you so much.
On our radar this morning, President
Trump issuing a new expletativefilled
threat to Iran as he extends his
deadline for the reopening of the Strait
of Ramuz until tomorrow at 8:00 p.m.
Eastern time. The president vowing to
destroy the nation's energy
infrastructure if a deal is not reached.
US forces rescuing an airman from a
mountainous area in Iran after his
fighter jet was shot down. President
Trump hailing the dramatic operation to
retrieve the injured crew member just
one day after the rescue of a second
person from the same jet. And Iran
calling for an immediate end to the war.
The foreign ministry saying no rational
person would agree to ceasefire.
Mediators reportedly including Pakistan,
Egypt, and Turkey are pushing for a
45day ceasefire which could lead to an
end in the conflict. This to me really
is the push pull Danny. It's not
necessarily US and Iran. It's Saudi
Arabia. It's UAE. It's Qatar. It's all
of the other nations in the region that
are highly concerned about any
escalation rebounding negatively onto
their infrastructure that already has
gotten attacked.
>> I say over the weekend those attacks
escalated. And with the president
issuing this threat, what would happen?
What would Iran's retaliation look like?
It might be further attacks on things
like water dissalination plants. They
already attacked a report suggest Kuwait
over the weekend. What does that mean
for these nations whose economies have
been growing massively, who have been
investing in things like data centers?
What happens if their infrastructure
increasingly gets attacked? Does that
pull push back a lot of the economic
projects which they have been undergoing
in the past decade
>> and investments, right? This is the
other question for a lot of uh
investment firms in the United States
and globally. This has been one of the
key drivers and investments in AI in
infrastructure around the world. it was
how many, you know, Middle East
sovereign wealth funds that were coming
into things that are now necess.
I have been actually talking to a lot of
private equity investors in recent days
who've said it used to be the calendar
that you'd go to Asia. You'd always stop
in the Middle East. They're not doing
that, of course, because of travel
issues. You can't do that. And it just
means conversations aren't happening as
much. Attention has been diverted. And
to your point, the spending priority of
these countries necessarily needs to
change if they're looking at hits to
their infrastructure and oil that can't
escape and get that key source of
funding. This is a reason why people are
watching oil prices to understand the
leverage points and sort of the nodes of
pain. Oil fluctuating with traders on
edge over President Trump's ultimatum
for Iran and reports of ongoing
ceasefire talks. Dan Pickering of
Pickering Energy Partners writing, "Talk
is cheap and getting cheaper as threats,
deadlines, and promises of deals get
pushed to the right." Dan joins us now.
T Dan, thank you so much for being with
us. I want to start not necessarily on
the noise, but on what's going on on the
ground, what you're seeing in terms of
the damage, the delays to get things
restarted, even if there was some sort
of ceasefire or truce in the near
future.
>> Hi, Lisa. Good morning. The the issue
here is the ongoing violence, but it's
also the restart time. When you look at
the shutins of fields uh further back up
the Gulf in in the Middle East, Saudi,
Kuwait, Iraq, etc. Um I think the issue
is even if there was a ceasefire, even
if there's a sessation of hostilities,
you know, the the question is how long
does it take to get going? And that's
going to be measured, I think, in
months, not weeks. And so, you know,
this has a long tail to it that the
market's starting to absorb, but I don't
think fully appreciates because of all
the news on the front uh part of the
curve.
>> Dan, we've talked to different officials
in the administration in the Trump
administration who said we're taking
cues from uh the forward curve and the
fact that forward curve come down comes
down and prices are expected to drop
significantly by the end of the year.
How much do you glean from the forward
curve? the idea that oil's futures
traders are expecting oil prices at
least based on the pricing to come down
significantly.
>> Yeah, I think I think it matters a lot
when this finishes, how it finishes. The
the reality is open the straight, prices
are going to come down. Triple digit
numbers are are too high on a
sustainable basis if the straight is
open and and the question is really
where do you settle? forward curve right
now 27 28 um is showing prices in the
high to mid60s um to me probably feels a
little conservative as we feel the
impact of drawing down these
inventories. Uh but the reality is
tripledigit prices are a function of
conflict. If the conflict abs if the
straight opens prices come down that's
what's going to flow through the
economy. So we really have to watch 27
28 29.
>> Well, just now as as pricing stands Dan
to your point in the high 60s, what
would be more appropriate? What would
look what should it look like to price
in risks accurately to the straight of
Hormuse right now?
>> Yeah. If if we don't open the straits
that the back end of the curve is going
to move toward the front, right? So
we'll we'll take oil into the 80s and
potentially the 90s. the I think the the
the more appropriate conversation is how
complicated is the Middle East after
this conflict ends. If Iran is in charge
of the strait, there has to be some sort
of a risk or disruption premium and
that's probably going to be measured in
5 to 10 bucks a barrels. So I think
mid70s to high 70s is probably the
realistic number if um if we end this
with Iran in charge of the strait. Is
there demand destruction at that level,
Dan, or is that a price that the world
can continue functioning with? I
>> think it's a painful price, but one that
that the world functions. So, demand
destruction is going to be measured in
the 120, 130, 150. You've heard some
really big numbers associated with that.
Um, if the straight's open, we don't
need to destroy demand. Can demand
continue to grow at 75 or $80 WTI? The
answer is yes. Um would would markets
the president etc like prices lower
certainly but 75 to 80s manageable.
>> I was struck by something that fat bro
of the international energy agency said
to the FT over the weekend. He was
talking about hoarding. He said I urge
all countries not to impose bans or
restrictions on exports. He went on to
say it is the worst time when you look
at the global oil markets. Their trade
partners, their allies and their
neighbors will suffer as a result. He
was clearly talking about a certain
nation. Did not mention any nations
names. How many nations, not only China
but others as well, do you see
stockpiling, hoarding, putting export
bans in place?
>> Yeah, the the real issue is is whether
or not these countries are going to
release their strategic reserves to
offset um the the shortages. The real
the real question when you're fighting
for barrels amongst your neighbors is,
you know, what what price does it take
to get that barrel to your shores? And
in a situation of shortage, what do
people do? They do hoard. They don't
want to they don't want to use what
they've got. They want to acquire more
so that they can can stay in the game,
if you will. So, right now, we haven't
seen uh releases from Chinese China's uh
stockpiles. Japan, the US, other OECD
countries are starting to release
stocks, but it's moving fairly slowly.
It's it's a long process. It'll take,
you know, several months for that to to
push ahead.
>> To put this together with what Daniel
was asking about, which I think is
something that is the key point. When
you take a look at the forward curve,
when do you start pricing in the risk
premium? That this is not a oneoff. this
is something that can continue in terms
of the geopolitical tensions around
shipping and particularly shipping
energy uh products. I mean at what point
do you see the forward curve in oil
futures underpricing that reality that
is very much being demonstrated?
>> The day is coming. If if we continue to
have this cat-and- mouse game of
deadlines that are extended and pushed
forward and the conflict continues, I
think the market stops listening as much
to what uh politicians on both sides of
the conflict are saying and just
continue to look at the barrels. If the
barrels don't come through the straits,
the realization that the market is going
to continue to tighten, I think, seeps
in and folks stop believing peace is
coming, start believing that war will
continue. And if that's the case, then
oil's got to go higher. The back part of
the curve moves up.
>> Dan Pickering of Pickering Energy
Partners, thank you so much for being
with us. I was noting that Saudi Arabia
raised their Asian oil price to the
highest on record relative to other
barrels that are going out there. It
just shows how different the scenario is
depending on grades that are being
shipped to different regions.
>> It's very true. And look, the warnings
are out there. OPEC on Friday, for
example, said it's going to take longer
even when the war in Iran ends because
of the hit to infrastructure. But Lisa,
I wonder to Dan's point, not only do we
stop paying attention to the politicians
or maybe put that to the side, but we
also start listening to the dialogue
that's happening with US allies who are
trying to negotiate with Iran for safe
passage. Uh, a French and a Japanese
container ship reportedly made it
through the Straight of Hormuse. Iraq
also telling its Asian refiners that
it's able to get some barrels through.
Is this the new normal that we that's
what's important for this market that
barrels can go through, but it's Iran
that's still controlling it. So, you
still need a bit of a higher premium.
>> Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your bloomer brief with your hier on
antihra.
>> Hi, Lisa. 15 ships passed through the
straight of Hormuse in the past 24 hours
according to Iran's semiofficial FARS
news agency. No details were provided
though on the ship's nationalities or
the cargo they carried. Iran's military
earlier said Iraq was exempt from
shipping restrictions in the waterway.
Israel saying Iran still has more than
1,000 missiles that are capable of
reaching it. The estimates potentially
imply months of more fighting given the
current rates of fire by Iran and its
proxy group Hezbollah.
And OPEC plus has approved the symbolic
increase in output quotas for the next
month with key producers agreeing to
boost targets by 206,000 barrels a day.
The increase is theoretical as the
closure of the street of Hormuse
continues to throttle trade flows.
That's your Bloomberg. F Lisa,
>> thank you so much Yahra. Up next, signs
of strength in the US economy. What we
expect with a high confidence is that uh
what you're seeing in today's jobs
market will continue and that this uh
situation in the Middle East will be
over very shortly. Then people can put
their eyes back on the horizon and see
that we're creating a golden age.
>> Betsy Stevenson of the University of
Michigan joins next. This is Bloomberg
surveillance.
Welcome back to Boomer Surveillance as
we take a look at a market that is
resilient because the economy is
resilient. That has been the story so
far this year, even through a conflict
that has led the S&P to be a little bit
less than 6% below the all-time highs
amid incredible volatility this morning.
Trying to build on the best week that
we've seen so far this year. Last week,
the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq both rallying
hard today. Trying to build on that. S&P
futures e eating easing away from some
of the earlier gains up now just about a
tenth of a percent. NASDAQ up about uh
3/10en of a percent similar with the
Russell 2000. The pushpull really seen
in the bond market with twos and tens
yields just inflecting higher ahead of
that inflation data that we get uh both
on Thursday and Friday. Is the economy
resilient in a way that allows inflation
to take hold or is it potentially more
fragile at a time of weakening labor
market strength? Under surveillance this
morning, signs of strength in the US
economy.
If you keep your eye on the horizon, if
you understand the long run growth, the
golden age is coming because of our
policies, then this uh jobs number makes
complete sense. And what we expect with
a high confidence is that uh what you're
seeing in today's jobs market will
continue and that this uh situation in
the Middle East will be over very
shortly. Then people can put their eyes
back on the horizon and see that we're
creating a golden age.
>> Here's the latest. Investors expecting
the Fed to keep rates on hold after
Friday's blowout jobs report. Fresh
reads on inflation still ahead with PCE
and CPI later this week. Former Labor
Department chief economist Betsy
Stevenson now with the University of
Michigan writing, "I'm less positive
about the labor report than the headline
number." Betsy joins us now. Betsy,
wonderful to see you. Thank you so much
for being with us. That headline number
was significant. We've had 178,000 jobs
created in the month of March. Why do
you think it isn't as positive as it was
seemingly stated?
you know, uh, Kevin Hasset speaking
there looks like a guy who won the
lottery. And he looks like that for a
reason. It was a pretty lucky month. Uh,
178,000. If I was working in the White
House, I would have been thrilled to see
that number, particularly after having
lost
133,000 jobs last month. But the reality
is, even when I was working in the White
House under Obama, doesn't matter who
the president is, I'm not being negative
on on this particular president. Just
the fact is we all have to look at more
than one month. And so we put together
months. So then if you look at the last
two months with that big negative
number, the big positive number, it
looks like we've added 22,000 jobs a
month the last two months. Uh that
that's okay, but it's it's not great,
right? It's not what people want. And if
you look over uh you know the
three-month period, the numbers a little
bit higher. And so what all of that
tells us is that last month's large
decline was an anomaly. And we actually
knew that because we knew some of it was
due to workers being on strike. And they
even told us that in the report. Those
striking workers luckily they have now
resolved their strike and have gone back
to work. So they're now included as a
positive contribution in the previous
month. So we get two negative last
month, two positive now, and then we put
it together to figure out is it the just
right economy or not. And I would say
that it's still a weak economy if you're
looking for a job. If we look at the
survey data, people still think that
it's not a good time to find a job. If
we look at where the jobs are being
added over even just a few months, we
see almost all the jobs are in
healthcare. That's great. if you're
looking for a job in healthare, but a
robust economy sees jobs, job growth
across a wide range of industries, and
we do not have that.
>> Betsy, there was a report that came out
from the Fed last week that indicated
that the break even rate for the US
economy could be as low as 10,000 or
even lower. And that even to break even,
you could get a positive or a negative
payroll print on any given month. How
does that kind of frame how you look at
things?
Um well what that means is we're going
to see a lot more bouncing where we have
negative n months are positive. Um why
is that? Well that you know that we see
in any given jobs report that that this
the error rate is around plus or minus
100,000. If we're looking for, you know,
typical growth of a 100,000 a month,
then you're usually in a good economy
going to get a number above zero, even
with that sort of bouncing that comes
from measurement error. If we're only
looking for 10 to 15,000 a month, then
that standard measurement error is going
to bounce us negative some months,
positive other months. And it's actually
going to become increasingly hard to
discern when the economy is shrinking
versus growing, right? You're looking to
try to figure out are we on the positive
side of zero just a little bit or not.
And we know we have a lot of measurement
error there. So I think it makes it a
little bit tough to understand that
10,000 number. It comes from not just an
aging population now, but the fact that
we don't have the im, you know, we we
don't have the positive net immigration
that we used to have.
>> So, it it's data that gets more tricky
and harder to discern. But Betsy, I
wonder what you think about the summer
period we're about to enter. This is
something Anna Wong of Bloomberg
Economics was writing about, saying that
one, we're likely to get a cyclical
rebound in the freight industry, but
two, we do have a big US event. We have
the World Cup. where more hiring will
happen for hospitality and leisure.
Should that add to this economy? Should
that add to a more robust jobs market?
>> You know, it just depends on whether we
have a mo more robust summer than the
previous summer. So, what we always do
is seasonally adjust our data.
Otherwise, all we would ever be looking
at is seasonal patterns because there is
always more hiring in the summer. Um
what we'd be looking for this summer is
is it more than in previous summers.
You're right, we have some big events
coming and you know they could help
boost the US economy for sure,
particularly since a lot of that demand
is not coming internally from the United
States but externally from foreign
visitors who will be coming into the
United States. I think if what you care
about is is the US economy in a strong
place, we care a lot about demand coming
from US consumers. So I would be careful
when you're looking at that economy and
seeing boosts that come from one-off
events like the World Cup.
>> Betsy Stevenson of the University of
Michigan, thank you so much for taking
the time this morning. A key question
here of how good the labor market report
was on Friday. On one hand, you could
say it is a one-off and there's a lot of
volatility in these numbers. You could
also say that when you take a look at
the three-month average change, which is
something that a lot of people focus on,
is 68,000 uh gained a month. That is
really good. On the flip side, you're
not seeing the wage gains that go with
that. So, that is the question. Is this
sort of the right kind of upside
surprise without the inflationary pass
through that some people were looking
for.
>> Maybe that's a good thing. It was the
slowest wage growth since 2021 in the
most recent report. We're not entering a
wage spiral. people aren't asking for
higher wages because gasoline is all of
a sudden starting to cost more. Again,
it goes to thing that people have been
saying over and over again. It depends
how long prices are elevated. Does that
start to change? If for months now
people are looking at more than $4 at
the price, do they start to ask more for
more money from their employers? And
then does it become a labor market that
is still decently strong and wage growth
that starts to pick up?
>> And if you don't see that wage growth,
how much do people start to pull back in
their discretionary spending? That is
what people are looking for. When is
this a weaker economy story and not
necessarily an inflationary pass through
story? Coming up next, we've got Katie
Kaminsky of Alpha Simplex, Colonel Wayne
Sanders of Bloomberg Intelligence, Betty
Jen of Barclays, and Kurt Ryman of UBS
as we take a look at markets that are
trying to shake off some of the headline
roulette. Talking about potentially uh
some sort of resolution, not necessarily
the escalation that could be on the
other end of this deadline. That's 8:00
p.m. tomorrow. You can see S&P futures
higher by about a tenth of a percent.
NASDAQ futures really getting the bounce
up 4/10en of a percent as people look
out and say, "Wait a second, maybe
there's some value that's been created."
The key phrase that we keep hearing from
a number of people. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
There is a lot of momentum in this
economy.
>> It's an economy where the labor market's
largely stable.
>> The labor market by most measures looks
good.
>> We should be back to a world that's
growing reasonably well.
>> There's still a reckoning to come. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and Ann Marie
Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to the second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance with
futures building on the best week for
the S&P going back to November of 2025
and strong earnings expectations. A new
deadline looming to prevent escalation
in the Middle East conflict as we wait
until tomorrow night for that. And all
eyes turning to the inflationary impacts
from the war with a slew of data on deck
later this week. Of course, the key one
being CPI data, Danny, on Friday.
>> And the expectation is that because
we'll have this conflict in hand now,
the impact to oil prices is that we'll
get a 1% increase on headline. That
would be the steepest since 2022. Is
that something that markets will be able
to look through? Is that something that
we say, look at the forward curve of oil
prices. We're still pricing something
near $70 a barrel. When you get to next
year, maybe it doesn't matter at the
moment. It's hard to discern what's
important between that, between the
president's threats of escalation,
between his delays of ultimatums,
between talks, reports that there are
talks going on and that there's
negotiations of a 48 hour ceasefire. It
is so much incoming information for
markets to try to deal with.
>> Yeah, there's a push pull right now. Is
this more of an inflationary shock or is
this more of a hit to growth? And not
only do we get CPI on Friday, but on
Thursday we get personal income and
personal spending. Given that coming
into this there was strong uh spending,
how much is the momentum key to
understand exactly how much pain this
market could keep keep absorbing? And
remember next week we get earnings
beginning and actually we've got to get
guidance from some of the companies one
some of them already speaking and saying
that that momentum was so strong that
they still expect to upgrade their
earnings expectations. I am most
interested for that beyond the headline
data of what these companies say of what
they're hearing from consumers because
to your point they have continued to be
strong and analysts continue to upgrade
their earnings expectations but what do
some more of the consumer related
companies say for now the one-offs it's
been Nike saying it's its own issues not
necessarily the consumer as a whole it
does it continue to be idiosyncratic or
do we see a consumer that has already
started to run down their savings face
some issues when they all of a sudden
need to pay More to come.
>> Yeah, every time we want to get
negative, we take a look at the
Bloomberg US economic surprise index.
Highest level going back to 2023. More
surprises than negative surprises going
back to that time. Right now, what you
can see in markets is people trying to
look on the bright side. Uh despite some
of the headline roulette, despite some
of the uncertainty, S&P S&P futures
higher by about a tenth of a percent
after having the best week last week
going back to November of 2025.
The dollar dollar softening after a
strong week last week. You can see the
euro up about 1 to 115. And you can see
the 10-year yields basically unchanged
here at 434. The rally has been much
more significant in stocks than in
bonds. Really beset by a question in the
bond land about inflation versus growth.
Coming up this hour, we've got Katie
Skimmenky of Alpha Simplex as equities
push higher. Colonel Wayne Sanders of
Bloomberg Intelligence as President
Trump issues new threats to Iran. and
Betty Jen of Barclays as crude trims
gains. We begin this hour with stocks
looking to start the week higher. Katie
Kaminsky of Alpha Simplex Group writing,
"Given the trajectory of oil prices and
the short-term risk of continued
escalation, equities have pulled back
some from their optimism." Katie joins
us now for more. Katie, wonderful to see
you. What does a trend follower do with
the kind of action that we have seen
over the past few weeks?
Well, this is a good point because what
we have seen is a massive piss pivot out
of uh risk assets. We saw huge trends in
energies and we've seen a rotation where
you've seen for example bonds and stocks
down and you've seen also the dollar up
which is a very completely different
trend than we saw earlier this year. So
they're continually we're continually
moving with those themes as they have
moved over the last few weeks. Right
now, do you see a stronger signal from
equities or for bonds? Because they seem
like they're moving slightly in
different directions with bonds
concerned at times more about inflation
risk than the downside and with stocks
kind of just trying to look through
everything to a brighter future.
Yes, this is a good point. I mean, we
saw last month stocks and bonds both
sort of struggling in this environment,
but I think the inflation theme is just
very different in its impact on fixed
income. As you look in fixed income, the
fact that oil prices still remain high
puts direct pressure on fixed income in
the sense that the amount of inflation
impulse that we have still is very hard
to tell at this point. Whereas equities
are really looking for hope for a
resolution and that they kind of feel
that as soon as we know that there is a
resolution, we can move forward. Whereas
bonds are going to be dealing with the
inflation question for much much longer
uh in the next few weeks to months. But
Katie, to to the point that Lisa's
rightly been making all morning, what
happens if that conversation shifts to
not inflation, but to growth and any
weakness coming from there? Could that
be a potential upside for bond prices if
that is where we start to center around
that there is weaker growth and maybe it
is a Fed that needs to step in?
That is a very good question because
right now I think what was interesting
about the Friday data is there's nothing
that's really sticking out as a signal
uh that we need to worry about the labor
market at this point. But it's important
to remember that a shock in oil has
naturally a lot of ramifications for
both inflation and weakens consumers. So
I think as we start to see that trickle
down and we start to see this be not
just about an inflation concern but also
that we see growth is a concern then it
is possible that the Fed would have more
ammunition to come in despite uh despite
the fact that inflation is going to be
top of mind for them given how high
energy prices have been uh in the recent
period. Ju just taking a step back Katie
since you you do work for a trend
follower so you understand better than
most kind of the technical nature of
this market there's been a lot of
discussion that what we've seen over the
past month has been more about
positioning the proliferation of pod
shops which means momentum bets tend to
be stronger as all the money kind of
goes towards the pods that are winning
that it's retail investors who are more
engaged with this market than they have
been historically. How do you view
markets in terms of participation and
some of those technical factors? To what
degree are they really dominating the
price action?
>> I mean, I think this is a very good
point because you do see a massive pivot
in terms of momentum deleveraging. Um,
what we saw in the cross asset space is
we saw clearly a lot of risk-on
positioning and hedge funds as well have
delevered some. So really sort of seeing
people taking risk off the table as
things have become more uh volatile. Um
in terms of retail flows, retail flows
definitely have been more focused on
momentum in stocks. Um and so you're
seeing a little bit of you know
dispersion was more challenging last
month for example. So I think you know
it's really a market where we need that
when we have that tipping point you
might actually see momentum come back
into play. you could see a strong uh
recovery because of this. Um that
momentum and technical signals would be
pointing to this being a buying
opportunity once we see that escalation
is is less of a concern.
>> Is there a takeaway Katie though in
terms of what the haven assets are? It's
not necessarily such a clear-cut haven
asset to go into government bonds. It is
though on the margins the US dollar. Is
that a tell or is that an aberration
just based on this particular set of
risk assets? risk of risk uh events.
>> This is actually a very interesting
question, Lisa, because last year all we
did was talk about how the dollar was no
longer a safe haven asset. And in this
particular environment with geopolitical
risk, usually you would assume that
things like gold uh would also be your
go-to like we saw last year. But right
now what we're seeing is that the only
asset that seems to be sort of the one
safe haven besides of course if you're
long energies um is the dollar. And this
makes sense to me because right now
given the current scenario you see
obviously riskoff sentiment has been
very positive for the dollar and the
probability of cuts has really uh
reduced to kind of priced out for the
year which means that the dollar is
looking stable and strong in this
environment which does not surprise me.
But I do note that we did not see that
last year. Uh and so dollar back to safe
haven status may be sort of the theme
for now.
>> Are you starting to see a sense that
people are moving back to gold after the
sell-off? That the sell-off that we saw
over the past few weeks was largely
driven by central banks trying to
liquidate assets. Sell what you can, not
what you want to to try to fortify their
economies and different funds trying to
liquidate what they can do what they
could to support uh positions that were
stopped out.
That is actually a good question because
gold generally had been sort of affected
by some key structural issues that you
mentioned with central banks and I think
you know a lot of that needed to be
rattled out in terms of the giant price
moves and corrections. So I think you
know over the next few months if prices
remain at a level that seems logical
people may start seeing gold and silver
for example as somewhere to go in a
place where they're concerned about
geopolitical risk. Um, but I think you
know, you did see that that wasn't the
case more recently, particularly in
March, and I think that's just because
of the prices being so high that there
was just less room for safe haven status
in those assets.
>> Katie Kaminsky of Alpha Simplex, thank
you so much for being with us. As we
were talking, a headline crossed,
reminding us that it is merger and IPO
Monday. Yes, once again, Madison Air
Solutions seeking to raise up to $2.23
billion in an initial public offering.
Danny, it just strikes me how open
capital markets have been. We have seen
a record march for corporate bond
issuance. It has been a record year for
IPOs. It seems like that has not slowed
down despite some of the volatility.
>> Not at all. M&A deal making volumes had
the most robust first quarter on record.
Despite, by the way, not just war
headlines, but also the AI freakout,
which in the beginning did pull some
IPOs away. It is a capital markets that
are very open. I was speaking to UBS's
head of capital markets last week who
said companies are just going to use any
pocket of calm they can find to get
these IPOs done. There has been a
drought. They are ready. The regulatory
environment is more friendly for them.
So, by all accounts, everyone feels very
bullish and bankers are getting paid,
especially with a $2 trillion valuation.
It looks like we'll get more than that
for the SpaceX IPO. Bank earnings kick
off the season next week. So maybe we'll
get a sense of just how good it has been
and how big the pipeline is going
forward considering the der of such
activity over the past few years. Let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning. Here is your Bloomberg
brief with Yahira and Jihara. Hi Alisa.
Iran's foreign ministry saying no
rational person would agree to a
ceasefire because it means just creating
a short pause to regroup and commit
crime again. The comments coming after
Axios reported the US, Iran, and a group
of regional mediators are reportedly
discussing terms for a possible 45day
ceasefire.
Several airports in Italy are setting
jet fuel limits due to the conflict in
the Middle East. At the Venice airport,
priority will be given to medical states
and flights longer than 3 hours for
while for other flights, a maximum of
2,000 LERs per aircraft may be used. And
President Donald Trump endorsing
Republican and former Fox News host
Steve Hilton to be the next governor of
California. Trump writing in a truth
social post, quote, "Steve can turn it
around before it is too late, and as
president, I will help him to do so."
That's Bloomberg brief. Lisa, thank you
so much, Yah. Up next, escalating
threats.
>> You don't do a ceasefire when you're
literally obliterating the other side.
>> We are decimating. They've got no
anything. If there is no deal, we are
going to hit each and every one of their
electric generating plants very hard.
>> Colonel Wayne Sanders of Bloomberg
Intelligence joins next. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
Coming into a new week with new threats
of potential escalation or potentially a
ceasefire. Markets initially took it all
in stride. What you have seen as the
session grows older is less optimism.
S&P futures almost flat now, up less
than a tenth of a percent after being up
about a quarter of a percent just about
an hour ago. NASDAQ futures also losing
some of the heat, up about 310 of a
percent. Similar Russell 2000. This
really is coming at a key time for the
bond market, facing down a week of key
economic data, talking about inflation,
a question of how much some of these
higher energy prices have bled into
consumer prices. Two-year yields
inflecting about two basis points higher
to 3.8. 86. Uh meanwhile, you are seeing
uh 10-year yields up about a basis point
to 4.35%.
In the uh oil market, this is what we
are watching a sense of perhaps calm.
How much can we actually get from it?
We're watching the June contract. That's
apples to apples. When it comes to Brent
and WTI right now, Brent trading right
now at $108.76.
WTI up down just about a percent to
$97.11.
under surveillance this morning.
Escalating threats.
>> You don't do a ceasefire when you're
literally obliterating the other side.
>> We are decimating. They've got no
anything. They have to open up the
straight
of Trump. I mean, harmless.
>> We'll hit some bridges. Got a couple of
nice bridges in mind.
>> We are going to hit them extremely hard
over the next two to three weeks. We're
going to bring them back to the stone
ages where they belong. If there is no
deal, we are going to hit each and every
one of their electric generating plants
very hard.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
extending his deadline for Iran to
reopen the Street of Hermuz until
tomorrow night at 8:00 p.m. Eastern and
threatening strikes on civilian
infrastructure if a deal is not reached.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
from Washington. Hey Tyler.
>> Hey Lisa. Good morning. Well, as
President Trump extends his deadline to
tomorrow at 8:00 p.m. Eastern to reach a
deal, there are real questions about
what the US would be willing to agree to
when it comes to one. Because as Axios
and now the Associated Press report that
regional mediators are working on a
potential 45day ceasefire, the reporting
is indicating that it appears no one is
expecting there to be a full reopening
of the Strait of Hermuz. Because as of
now, Iran is still taking a hardline
stance, even saying over the weekend
that the straight will not fully reopen
until it is quote fully compensated for
war damages through the tolls that
they're currently charging on ships. And
then in new comments even this morning,
we heard from Iran's foreign ministry
saying that no rational person in their
words would agree to a ceasefire because
it would just give the sides time to
regroup. Now, we have seen some
potentially positive movement when it
comes to the straight. Data analyzed by
Bloomberg News shows that flows through
the waterway have now reached their
highest level since the early days of
the war as more countries secure safe
passage agreements with Iran, but the
transit is still only a fraction of what
it was before. For example, Iran saying
that Iraqi flagged vessels will not need
to meet requirements to transit through.
But then we heard Iraqi officials
caution that flows are really going to
depend on just how much risk shippers
are willing to take because at this
point Iran is still hitting energy
infrastructure in the region, including
hitting Kuwait's oil headquarters over
the weekend. Now, Lisa, President Trump
is going to brief reporters later today
at 1:00 p.m. Eastern. He's going to give
a foreign policy update, but no doubt
will face questions when it comes to the
domestic policy front as well. and
Americans grapple with retail gasoline
that's now over $4 a gallon. I'd expect
President Trump to outline what he's
already done in a bid to try to curb
prices. Maybe we'll get a preview if
anything else will come because the
issue of affordability is coming back
into the conversation front and center.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much uh for
being with us. Joining us now is Colonel
Wayne Sanders, senior defense analyst at
Bloomberg Intelligence. Colonel, thank
you so much for being with us. Uh we had
headlines earlier this morning from the
Iranian side with the foreign ministry
saying that no rational person would
agree to a ceasefire. A ceasefire means
creating a short pause to regroup. How
seriously should we be taking
discussions of some sort of ceasefire by
8:00 p.m. tomorrow Eastern time.
>> I think that from a political
perspective, everybody needs to be able
to come forward and do that. From a
military objectives perspective, I agree
with the assessment that not a whole lot
is actually gained by that. You're
pretty much saying the US takes their
foot off the gas in terms of all the
strikes that they have done. And over
the weekend, as you saw, Iran was
actually able to show some of the
vulnerability to uh close air support
assets uh with the Apache, with the
F-15, as well as um uh excuse me, uh as
well as uh some of the other the other
close air access, the A-10s. So, that
actually shows right now that anybody
who's coming to a military side of the
house says, "No, I need to actually
double down and achieve more of those
military objectives." The problem is
that the rest of the world is looking
for anything that's going to allow some
level of a release valve. And you saw
that a couple times even during the Iran
Israel 12-day war when they came for a
ceasefire. They needed to be able to
take that time so that behind the scenes
they could reach what they wanted to
reach.
>> Um Colonel, there was a report from
Israel which it said that Iran still had
more than a thousand missiles that could
threaten it. What do we understand about
the capabilities of Iran to enact that
type of pain with this continued
missiles, cheap drones that they've had
at their disposal?
>> Yeah, their their drone stockpile is
still significant, right? The Shahed 136
is one of the most long range uh and
effective ones that you've seen actually
take uh a lot of the Gulf states right
now. A lot of them have been targeted
with the drones. their missile
capability has been uh severely
weakened, but depending on where you're
looking at the numbers, yeah, you can
see up to almost a thousand there.
Hezbollah claims thousands of short
range missiles as well. Uh so when you
start looking at the proxies, so there's
always going to be a continued threat
for that. A lot of the launchers have
been damaged, so their ability to
actually vol
you've seen a lot of Iran be able to do
stuff with just one or two targets at a
time. They don't have to launch a lot.
They just have to be able to strike
their targets.
>> Well, when it comes to the proxies,
Colonel, this is something that Israeli
forces and American forces had said that
in past conflicts, they significantly
weakened them. Is that the case this
time around? Is Hezbollah, as they have
these tens of thousands of rockets to
use, are they weakened at this point?
>> I I think the number of folks that they
have to actually do this, yes,
absolutely. The number of hostiles that
are involved, yes. The number of
infrastructure compared to where they
used to be, yes. I I think people didn't
quite understand exactly how large the
proxy force threat around the world was.
That's actually been getting uh
mitigated over the over the past 10
years or so. Uh and you're actually
seeing a lot of that come from the
proxies now. I actually expected a lot
more proxy involvement earlier on.
You've seen some of it on the
non-kinetic side. You've seen proxies
try after cyber attacks and others as
well. Um but you know, as this continues
to go on, it it ends up being another
lever that Iran can pull and still
provide some level of plausible
deniability. Colonel Sanders, it's spent
a lot of the weekend trying to figure
out ways that this could end that would
be palatable to both the GCC, the Gulf
countries, as well as the United States
and Israel. Do you see any path to
creating some sort of new normal that
would be palatable to the partners in
the region and that would lead to some
sort of permanent end to the fighting?
Yeah, I think when when Iran talks about
compensation, when they talk about war
compensation, I think there obviously
has to be some some level
acknowledgement that says, "Hey, look,
we did the following things to you and
Iran." And so from that perspective, uh
we're going to give you a certain
stipulation for this. Uh whether it's
monetary or in other means, uh there has
to be a way for Iran to save face in
this and say, "Okay, all right, we were
able to, you know, inflict a certain
amount of damage not only the Gulf
States as well as to the US. Uh so we
need to be continue to look at as a
legit legitimate player. The US needs to
be able to come back and say that we
have as President Trump keeps saying you
know bombed them to the stone age. We
have uh we have effectively neutralized
a majority of their missile threat and
as well as their nuclear program even if
it's not handed over that we do not
believe that they're going to have the
ability to produce and manufacture and
enrich uranium to the level that it
could be used for a nuclear weapon. for
the G Gulf states. I think there right
now you're seeing a lot of increased uh
production or procurement, excuse me, on
uh on air defense systems as well. So
everybody, I think at that point in time
is looking to make sure that they are as
secure as possible moving forward
against those drone threats.
>> How much are inventories of missiles uh
anti-bballistic missile uh inventories
as well as others that the US is moving
to the region? How much is that getting
depleted? How much is that going to
ultimately be the decider deciding
factor of this war? Who runs out first?
Well, I think uh I think it's a matter
of we have we have uh several different
types, right? I think the Gulf States
right now are looking at different
options for some cheaper solutions. You
have these uh systems called APKWS,
these advanced precision kill weapons
that are a lot cheaper and scalable and
able to be bring those to bear a lot
faster uh with BAE and uh with L3 Harris
and their Vampire systems. The problem
is that if you're continuing to use some
of our pack-free interceptors and our
THAD interceptors, which we have a
shorter supply of, it is something
that's of concern. Even when you look at
uh the naval the naval superiority that
we have a lot of our SM3 and SM6 that we
we launch from our naval vessels, those
also come into play here. There is a
huge ramp up going on right now in the
US uh specifically to quadruple
production. You see a lot of that with
RTX and Lockheed to be able to build
these. But it does come at a cost
because it's not something that you can
just turn that spigot on overnight and
and actually bring back those numbers.
>> Colonel Wayne Sanders of Bloomberg
Intelligence, thank you so much for
being with us and all of your insight
into this. It's the reason why a lot of
investors are trying to look at some of
the defense companies and saying, "Hey,
maybe that's a place to go given how
much production needs to ramp up, not
just for this conflict, but just to uh
re-up some of the stock piles that have
gotten depleted." Because there is a
real fear if there were to be another
conflict at this point, if something
happens in Taiwan, where does the US
stand in its ability to defend its
allies? And that's why you get from the
president asking for 2third of the
upcoming budget to be allocated to the
military. $1.5 trillion, a 44% increase
would be the biggest increase since
World War II. Again, it gets back to
this bond market. It gets back to
deficit spending. But it is clear that
this is an American military that is
putting more effort behind it because we
are at this wartime footing.
>> This market is used to looking through
geopolitical conflicts. It wants to look
through this geopolitical conflicts and
yet everyone on Wall Street is
increasingly becoming a geopolitical
analyst as we continue with this
conflict. Coming up in the next half
hour, we've got Betty Jang of Barclays
as crude pairs some gains. Plus, you
hire on with your morning movers. Energy
stocks falling on reports of ceasefire
talks. This is Bloomberg surveillance.
Good morning.
Last week was a very strong week for
risk assets, at least relative to other
weeks so far this year. You had the S&P
and NASDAQ both posting their best weeks
going back to November. You had high
yield bond spreads falling by 32 basis
points. We had the biggest weekly
decline investment grade bond spread
since July of 2025. We are building on
some of that optimism this morning
despite some threats of escalation with
S&P futures up about a tenth of a
percent and NASDAQ and Russell 2000 up
about a third of a percent each. When
you take a look at the bond space, a
real push pull here. Last week we got
much better than expected jobs numbers
coming out of the BLS. At the same time,
wage growth wasn't that strong. It was
the weakest as Danny was pointing out
going back to 2021. Now up next we've
got that inflation data coming on
Thursday on Friday. That push pull is
sending the front end higher three basis
points higher at the front end 3.87% on
the 2-year. Danny this very much in
focus. Does the Fed have to respond to
inflation before it can even start to
look at potential weakness
>> or how much does this just leave them
paralyzed? Does this leave an inability
to move in either direction? Even if
there is some weakening in growth, what
happens if it's occurring at the same
time where inflation stays sticky
because of what's happening in energy
prices? It is a populace and a central
bank that is so scarred from the pickup
in inflation and a Fed that didn't react
to it sooner. So, so does that make them
more hesitant to cut? What difference
does it make that in the background as
all of this is happening, we're still
awaiting a confirmation of a new Fed
president, too? There's a lot of
complicating factors and it really has
resulted in this expectation that the
Fed is going to do nothing
>> and it really comes with a huge question
mark. Where is Brent and WTI going to
end the year given the meteoric rise
that we've seen so far this year? We are
seeing just a bit of heat taken out of
the oil trade off by about a third of a
percent for Brent to 10864.
WTI that that June contract down to
$974.
Just want to put this into perspective.
That began the year for WTI at $56.98.
For Brent, that contract was trading at
$60. Two hours away from the cash open.
Here are your morning movers with the
Anna. Jira.
>> Hi Lisa. Those falling crude prices you
just talked about are weighing on the
domestic oil stock. So you're seeing uh
names like names like Exxon down 7/10en
of a percent. Chevron also down by that
same amount as markets price in the
potential for a ceasefire. Those um also
reinforcing that move lower in crude as
you have this idea that more ships are
starting to pass through the straight of
Hermoose though of course still well
below normal levels. Uh moving on to
some sellside action and we have
analysts over at Missouo VJ Resh saying
that it is time to buy the weakness in
names like Micron and SanDisk. Micron
down some 20% from its recent peak. He
says that selloff is overdone with these
companies still having the pricing
power. And we end on shares of Netflix
moving higher this morning, up 1 uh.7%
in the pre-market after Goldman Sachs
turned bullish on the stock ahead of its
earnings next week. The firm upgrading
the stock to a buy, upping its price
target to $120 on strong content plus
momentum in its ads business. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahihara, on our
radar this morning, President Donald
Trump renewing threats against Iran
while extending his deadline for the
reopening of the straight over. The
president vowing to destroy Iran's
energy infrastructure if a deal is not
reached by 8:00 p.m. Eastern tomorrow.
Iran calling for an immediate end to the
war. The foreign ministry saying no
rational person would agree to a
ceasefire. Mediators reportedly
including Pakistan, Egypt, and Turkey
are pushing for a 45day ceasefire which
could lead to an end to the conflict.
And Saudi Arabia raising the price of
its main oil grade to Asia to a record
high. Saudi Aramco increasing the price
of flagship Arab light crude for sales
next month to a premium of nearly $20
over regional benchmarks. Danny
highlighting just how the shortage is
disproportionately affecting the Asian
countries in particular. And it also
highlights the complicating factor of
this of what's happening on the ground,
the physical market and the disconnect
between the paper market. It's been a
lot of digital ink spilled on this idea,
but perhaps just looking at the dollar
per barrel of oil for WTI and Brent
doesn't fully reflect some of the
disruption. It's something that the
Chevron CEO uh Mike Worth has talked
about too, saying that the market is
trading on scant information and
perception that the reality might be
different. And it really also shows how
in Asia it is a story of the halves and
the have nots. The the nations that can
afford to pay the extra premium are able
to continue the economic activity at
levels that resemble what happened
before. Some of the nations that are
less capitalized, have less money, have
been unable to and are now putting
restrictions on how much oil people can
buy. And you're seeing people working
from home and reducing their economic
activity. It is a price issue at this
point, not necessarily a supply issue.
At what point does the supply issue and
just sort of the der of it start to
really crimp economic growth?
>> I also think the geo politics of this
get really interesting too. Mcronone
heading into the weekend was in Asia
saying a kind of similar pitch to Mark
Carney of Canada saying that middling
nations, Korea, Japan, France, they
should all get together and try to
circumvent the US and China. How much of
that starts to become reality on the
ground of those nations away from the
United States, start to try to negotiate
with Iranians to get barrels of oil out
of the street of Hormuse? Exactly. To
the point you're making, Lisa, because
they are more impacted. It's more
painful for them. Wouldn't it be fun to
be uh the CEO of an oil company right
now? Better Gen of Barkley is writing,
"The effective closure of the street of
Hermuz will have a bullish compounding
effect on go forward oil balance. Damage
is already done even if the war ends
today." Today, Betty joins us now for
more. Betty, great to see you. Thank you
for being here. So, what kind of damage
has been done? How do you sort of assess
the level of both infrastructure and
supply destruction that's in the
pipeline for weeks and months to come?
>> Sure. Um you know it's six weeks uh six
weeks into the war and it's amazing that
we're still talking about risk of
escalation and that um when we are
already living through the worst case
scenario many have feared coming into
this conflict and even if there's no
further escalation from here inventory
is already drawing very rapidly and we
think that
um even if we stop here. Um the every
day that the stray remains closed um we
are rapidly tightening the balance and
drawing the inventory down towards the
low end of the 5-year range and that's
going to tighten balances even beyond um
the war.
>> Why hasn't there been a production
response coming from the shell
producers? This was supposedly the plus
in OPEC plus that wasn't in OPEC that
was going to be the swing producer and
has been over the past number of years.
It's been very quiet in the shell patch
and there hasn't been a lot of new
production. What's your sense of why?
>> Sure. So, you know, this is the biggest
difference between this cycle versus the
last 15 years because shale is just not
coming to the rescue. Um, the shale has
matured. So we were in conversation with
companies last week and that companies
for the last 10 years has not been um
really incentivized to grow. They are
being told to uh increase capital
discipline, return cash to shareholders.
So we think higher prices beyond 20 uh
beyond what we currently see in 2027 and
28 to incentivize companies to start
adding activity. And then the other
thing to highlight is um inventory uh
maturation and and draw down of the core
tier one inventory. So that every
increase in activity needs to be
measured against um how much of the
remaining core do you have left and that
you need higher prices to incentivize
the next tier quality inventory as well
as the less efficient equipment. So you
hosted all these company executives in
Houston and I mean they've had a lot
thrown at them over the past year. What
was just the general sentiment read you
got from them?
>> Sure. It is one of cautious optimism. Uh
clearly higher oil price means higher
cash return and lower debt and would say
more durable capacity to return cash to
shareholders even um uh this year and
beyond. But there is also a sense of hey
like we need to be not get too high too
quickly because we have then we have to
worry about demand destruction and the
longer term impact to the balance. So um
cautiously optimistic right
>> I assume you could maybe describe
investors that way too given that oil
companies energy companies have been the
best performer over the past month that
sector up 5 a.5% over that 20-day time
period. Does that reflect you think
everything in it? Is there more room to
run? Would you be recommending investors
add to positioning in the sector?
>> Sure. So, what's interesting is that
even though the stock has rally year to
day, the stocks have gotten cheaper
relative to the strip and we think they
they are discounting midcycle prices of
$70. Now, um it is fair to acknowledge
if there's a credible um uh announcement
of a ceasefire, the sector is very
likely to pull back. But we are
recommending to lean into the sector uh
on pullbacks because these are
structurally better companies. So um we
talked about a structurally higher
geopolitical premium going forward. But
these are structurally better companies
as well with a better uh balance sheets
uh very strong execution and ability to
return cash through the cycle.
>> Betty Jen, thank you so much for being
with us. Wonderful to get your thoughts.
A real question here, not just about the
uh number of barrels that are not
getting on the seas while this
continues, but also damage being done to
facilities. And it isn't just crude, it
isn't just liqufied natural gas, but
some of the derivative products. This
just coming out the Israeli Defense
Forces saying that they struck the
biggest petrochemical facility in Iran.
This according to the Israel Defense
Minister, Israel uh Catz. This comes
after a previous hit on another
prochemical facility. Those together are
responsible for 85% of petrochemical
exports from Iran. Neither of them are
functioning again hitting a lot of
targets as we discuss whether there will
be a ceasefire agreed upon with a real
question around you know are these being
used for military use? Is this something
that is a financial issue? some
questions around this
>> and it just it's always the strange
thing of coming out of the weekend where
war escalation threats are issued by the
president. There are more attacks from
Iran on Gulf neighbors in this case
Israel in a prochemical facility and
stocks are rallying again on this hope
that a ceasefire is going to be reached.
But on the ground there are still
attacks happening. There is still
escalation. It's still only a few ships
that are making it through the straight
of Hormuse. There is optimism in this
market, very tepid, even though the
reality on the ground still feels very
different than anywhere of getting
towards some sort of reconciliation and
some sort of ceasefire.
>> We'll keep tracking this and bring you
the latest headlines. Right now, let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere.
Here is your bloomer brief with Yah and
Jihara.
>> Hi, Lisa. Israeli officials, as you just
said, saying the country has struck the
largest petrochemical facility in Iran.
Defense Minister Israel Katz confirming
the attack which hit the facility
located near the Persian Gulf Coast. The
facility is responsible for 50% of
Iran's prochemical production and comes
after the country's second largest
facility was hit just last week. JP
Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond saying the US
needs to quote get stronger to maintain
its military and economic might. In a
letter to shareholders, Diamond said the
bank will deploy more than $1 trillion
dollars to ensure the US remains strong
and unveiled initiatives to tackle big
picture policy issues. And the Aremis 2
astronauts are expected to complete a
record-breaking lunar flyby today.
According to NASA, the crew of the Orion
spacecraft will break the record for
maximum distance from Earth set by
Apollo 13. Dutch Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yhira, up next,
inflation risk in focus.
The risk is that we will continue to see
inflation stay higher for longer and
because of that rates are likely to also
going to stay higher for longer. The
market is not expecting that rates are
going to come down anytime soon.
>> B Ryman of UBS joining next as we see
yields inflecting just a touch higher
ahead of that key economic data. We get
of course personal income spending core
PCE on Thursday and then CPI on Friday.
This is Blue Brook Surveillance.
If you look at the geopolitical side,
you can get gloomy pretty quick. When
you take a look at the earning side, you
take a look at some of the momentum, you
look at the positive economic surprises,
people are trying to be optimistic and
you can see that reflected in equity
futures after the long weekend trying to
stage a rally after the best week uh of
the year going back to November of 2025.
S&P futures up a tenth of a percent, a
better uh rally in the NASDAQ and
Russell 2000 up about 4/10en of a
percent each. In the bond space, twos,
tens, and 30s, you could see yields just
edging higher. for a question of whether
this could be a hit to growth, which
might be uh a positive for bonds, or
whether this potentially is an
inflationary shock with that key
economic data CPI on Friday in
particular. And then in the crude space,
this catching my attention, the fact
that people are trying to be excited
about some sort of ceasefire despite
ongoing attacks. Danny, we just got
reporting about a petrochemical uh plant
in Iran that was struck by the Israeli
Defense Forces. This coming after
another petrochemical factory uh was
struck over the weekend accounting for
about 85% of the exports. What's fair
game? What does escalation look like?
Are we experiencing it right now as we
wait for the 8:00 p.m. deadline next?
>> It's happening on the ground. It's
happening in the rhetoric with that
exploitative laced tweet from the
president on truth social. But at the
same time, there was this report from
Catrinia that came out and basically
sent an analyst over to the straight of
Formoose and said, "Look, even though a
hot war is happening in the background,
things are orderly in the straight that
Iran is dictating what ships are going
through." So, does the conversation
start to separate with what's happening
with the price of oil and reports of
attacks like this? Can a hot war happen
at the same time with changes in the
straight of Hormuse allowing ships to go
through? Maybe that also puts a puts a
ceiling on the price of oil. You know,
we're pretty negative when we talk about
geopolitics. On the flip side, when you
take a look at the market, capital
markets activity, it's incredibly strong
at a record pace. When you look at some
of the issuance in March in the
corporate bond space this morning,
merger and IPO Monday, Medicine Air
Solutions seeking to raise up to $2.2
billion. Neurocrine is buying Celo
Therapeutics for 55 $53 a share in cash.
I mean, these are the other stories that
are under the surface. People want to
get deals done and they are getting
deals done. It was the best first
quarter on record which feels crazy
considering not just war AI disruption
that was a big fear. Instead what you're
getting household names Unilver doing a
deal with McCormick reports of Pernau
Ricard reports of Estee Lauder. It's a
who's who right now of consumer
companies that are getting deals done.
And when you speak to executives at
banks they are optimistic. So again it
is inflation versus growth. Can you get
pessimistic on growth when you see that
kind of optimism on the banking side
under surveillance this morning?
Inflation risk in focus.
>> There may be some demand destruction,
but the key conclusion now is we're just
not seeing that yet. The risk is that we
will continue to see inflation stay
higher for longer. And because of that,
rates are likely to also going to stay
higher for longer. The market is not
expecting that rates are going to come
down anytime soon. Over the next several
months, consumer spending should
continue to see strong tailwinds.
>> Here's the latest. Investors awaiting
key inflation data this week as the
strong March payrolls report dims hopes
for a Fed rate cut. Kirk Ryman of UBS
writing, "We recently upgraded US
treasuries to attractive after yields
had already risen, focusing exposure on
short to medium-term maturities to limit
exposure to interest rate risk." Kurt
joins us now for more. Kurt, wonderful
to see you. Thank you for being here.
I'm smiling because that's what everyone
says. You know, opportunities have been
created at the front end, at the medium
end. No one wants to venture into that
10 year or 30-year yield. Why is that so
uncertain even with the opportunity
that's been unlocked to use the parlance
of Wall Street?
>> Yeah. I mean, I think it's just this
concern about too high debt loads and
the concern about inflation potentially,
you know, creeping into the back end.
That's the reason why we want to stay a
little bit short on the on the rate
curve because if there is a continued
further rise in rate risk then that
could end up posing some some downdraft
to the to the treasury's exposure. But
then I'd also say why go out to 10 years
if you can get 90% of the yield in a
fiveyear note. I mean, this is a curve
that's uh, you know, giving you the
yield that you need as we're dealing
with these geopolitical risks when a few
years ago that wasn't the case. So,
we're just going to stay a little bit
shorter on the curve. Uh, we like this
uh opportunity. If rates rise in the in
the front to intermediate part of the
curve, you got a lot of protection
before you're going to start losing
money. Do you think that's an option
that potentially the Fed would be forced
to not necessarily hike rates, but even
put a hike on the table to signal to
markets that they were actually serious
maybe someday perhaps of getting
inflation back down to 2%.
>> I think the inflation data would have to
get a lot more menacing than what we've
seen uh and what we would even expect to
see with the oil price move so far. Um
it's not out that's a big question mark
just how long this lasts. Nobody knows.
Um but I would just say that the Fed it
seems right now is in this wait and see
mode. It's uh not going to necessarily
pull in one direction or the other. Um
our view towards the end of the year is
that we'll see the Fed move to another
rate cut, but this is predicated on the
idea of better productivity and that
this is a shortlasting hit to oil prices
that eventually comes down. Also, the
labor market is key here and we, you
know, we saw Friday's jobs numbers
wasn't exactly giving the signal that a
rate cut is imminent when you've got
this kind of, you know, job growth and
and the unemployment move rate moving
down. So, we'd have to see some weakness
start to emerge. Look at that
unemployment rate for an indicator. But
for right now, I think the Fed is just
content to hold where they are and let
the data tell them where they go next. I
wonder how much this becomes a model for
future shocks because it used to be a
Fed that alongside the government when
there was pain in the economy was very
willing to not necessarily cut but at
least broadcast that they are there for
a helping hand. Now when you continue to
see inflation overshooting, you have
deficits that are nearly 6% of GDP. Do
things change in the Fed's ability to
step in and lower rates when there are
concerns about growth for the American
economy?
>> Yeah, I think there's limits to policy
support here. uh if there's a larger hit
to growth uh it doesn't seem that the
that the government can come in with any
form of fiscal stimulus because we're
already looking at deficits as a share
of GDP that are in the you know 6 to 7%
range uh when it comes to the Fed uh
cutting interest rates when there's this
dueling mandate between inflation and
growth is not a sure thing. So yeah, I
think that there's, you know, we can't
look for policy necessarily to be the
savior, but then also I think it's
important to just kind of reflect on
where we started the year, which is with
a growth rate that was expected to be in
the US uh well north of 2%. So we start
taking away some incremental growth
because of the effect of higher oil
prices on the consumer. Yeah, I think it
shaves a few tenths, but we're still in
a positive growth environment. So, I'm
not sure that we're yet at a point where
we need to get that f that fiscal or or
monetary support to the economy.
>> How much of a of an issue is it for
Europe and Asia? How bigger of an issue
is it for them? And to what degree does
that bleed back into the US Treasury
market?
>> Right. I think a lot of the focus is on
the US economy, but really when we're
when we're living through an energy
shock, it's in the developing economies
uh up into emerging markets and then the
energy importers and that's going to be
more Asia, more Europe. They've lived
through Europe has lived through a
recent energy shock and tried to
diversify away from one of the prior
sources of energy only to go to the area
that is now at risk. Um so yeah I think
it sort of rekindles that discussion
about where are we as investors
positioning our portfolio. Do we have
commodities blended in? Um do we think
about you know defense still as an area
within the portfolio to have exposure uh
you know thinking about uh power and
resources um you know AI is was a has
has been a longstanding theme. We know
about the energy need for data centers.
Uh, I think that's still another area
that we want to we want to focus on.
>> Just quickly, have you seen or heard
speculation about Middle Eastern
sovereign wealth funds pulling back from
some of their classic investments in
particular in US debt?
>> That's been an ongoing
story not just in the Middle East, but
globally about about central banks
pairing back their Treasury exposure.
Uh, we haven't seen it in the data. Uh
what we do know is that central banks
are shifting to gold and why wouldn't
they? I mean if if you step on the wrong
side of what's considered right and
wrong and you can have your assets
expropriated u maybe that's a smart
policy move. So moving away from uh
treasuries and into gold is a
long-standing theme. We like gold in the
portfolio because of that. Uh it's it's
a it tends to do well also when you know
when central banks are cutting interest
rates. So there's a lot of of of reasons
why we would have a small allocation to
gold in the portfolio on this idea of
central banks uh shifting their
allocations and wealth funds as well.
>> Kurt Ryman, thank you so much for being
with us. Kurt Ryman of UBS. Coming up in
the next hour, Matt Mskin of Jan John
Hancock, Jason Thomas of Carile, Kathy
Bastansic of Nationwide, and Kayla Cedar
of State Street. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
trying to parse out what's happening is
increasingly difficult and the market is
obviously not necessarily buying that.
>> The markets are still I think under
underestimating that risk.
>> I think there is some positive momentum.
>> We aren't broad sellers of US equities
here.
>> Potential inflation reaceleration in the
second half of the year is the biggest
risk to the equity market. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to the third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance. Try
traders trying to sound an optimistic
tone after a long weekend with futures
uh trying to build on last week's gains,
but fading throughout the morning coming
into another week of ultimatums with 36
hours until a new deadline set by
President Trump to reach a deal. focus
now turning from jobs to inflation with
some key economic data on deck later
this week. We have PCE and jobless
claims coming on Thursday along with
personal income and personal spending on
Friday. We get CPI data. John Pharaoh
Emry Herd, both of them are off today
and for much of the week, but we are
very lucky to have Danny Burgerer in the
seat. Danny, a real question around how
much some of the inflation related data
will change the discussion around the
effects of the war. And we are expecting
to get an imp pickup that would be the
biggest since 2022. The conversation for
these markets has just been the headline
roulette, the pingpong, the back and
forth, the extension. Uh Iran saying
that they would not agree to a
ceasefire. What's happening in the
straight of Hormuse? We have yet to see
that fully realized through the economic
data because the ones we've gotten thus
far have been stale. So what difference
does it make to finally get some March
numbers and company earnings? What are
they going to say about what they're
seeing from the consumer about what
their supply chains look like, what
their logistics costs look like, and how
they're able to weather this?
>> We have heard some preliminary
discussions from Delta, from American
Airlines talking about bookings have
been incredibly robust. Consumers still
want to spend. We're seeing deals get
done uh in abundance. We're seeing a
record month from the month of March in
terms of corporate bond issuance. If you
take a look at capital markets, it
doesn't feel like caution. Last week, we
had the biggest rally in high yield
bonds going back to late last year. This
is a market wide open and all of the
debt that's been issued by these AI
spenders. Despite all those fears, too,
there is so much demand of it. There is
so much money that wants to get put to
work. By the way, ju just on the note of
airlines, I feel like that's telling in
itself that they're doing so well, not
only because of higher prices, but
airports are an absolute mess right now
and people are still traveling. People
are going and waiting in the 4-hour
lines and traveling.
>> That's true. It's sort of like uh you
know I wouldn't want to be I wouldn't
want to go to the club because it's too
crowded. Nobody goes there anymore. The
sort of Yogi Vera expression. At the
same time, you wonder how much that's
changing in real time given when you
take a look. Have you booked a flight
recently, a domestic flight, and seen
how low the prices have actually gotten.
So clearly it does seem like there is an
incentive to get people on board.
>> Yeah, there there definitely is. But not
for the international flights, not for
the highpaying ones. And this is what
matters most to these airlines too. It's
the business class flights. It's
international and those have looked very
robust.
>> Meanwhile, we are looking at markets uh
that are trying to feel positive. Coming
up this hour, Matt Mskin of Manu Life
with stocks searching for direction a
bit following a winning week. Jason
Thomas of Carile saying the fundamentals
and private credit remain strong. And
Kathy Bastansk of Nationwide looking
ahead to this week's inflation data. We
begin this hour with stocks edging a bit
higher and renewed optimism over a
potential ceasefire in Iran. Matt Mskin
of Manual Life, John Hancock writing,
equity markets are still signaling risk
on the price. The markets have yet to
price in any meaningful economic
slowdown from a potential energy supply
disruption. Matt joins us now. Matt,
wonderful to see you. Thank you so much
for being with us. So, this has sort of
been the pushpull. At what point do
expectations for some sort of growth hit
start to triumph over robust capital
markets activity and pretty good
economic data heading into this?
>> Yeah, I think Lisa the markets are
waiting for the whites of the eyes of
any economic slowdown and really wants
to see the data before uh getting
whipsawed and and really these markets
have been trained to be dip buyers to be
really risk on. What we're hearing more
so is panic buying more than panic
selling. So that's still the kind of
sentiment that's out there. And if you
think about it, traders have been, you
know, taught this. This time last year,
we had a 20% draw down on a geopolitical
event and it was a great buying
opportunity. Investors got rewarded for
that and I think investors are looking
for these dips to really look to add to
equities here.
>> What gives you confidence that allows
you to lean against that, right? I mean,
how do you lean against that given the
fact that earnings also are increasing
in terms of expectations and that has
been the winning trade in the past?
>> Yeah. So, a lot of it is priced in and
that's what we're struggling with is,
you know, right now the earnings
estimates just keep going up and they
almost look just un unlikely to be able
to be hit at this point. It's like the
high jump where the bar just keeps going
up and you have to try to jump over this
thing. It's going to be right now the
street is looking for 17% earnings
growth for the S&P 500. And this isn't
just the United States. It's everywhere
in the world. Every company around the
world is forecasted to see massive
earnings growth in 2026. And we're
sitting here saying, look, yeah, if we
could do mid single digits, high single
digit earnings growth, great. But those
estimates look rich to us. In our view,
equities still, if you kind of back out,
those massive earnings growth, they're
actually pretty heavily or richly valued
amidst all this. In our view, income and
alternative investments are a bigger
part or options now to portfolios and
things to look at to add uh amidst this
volatility.
>> Matt, a lot has been said of we're all
oil traders now that the direction of
risk markets and cross asset, it's being
dominated largely by oil. You make the
argument though that beyond oil, the
more important asset to be watching is
the US dollar after a dollar that
strengthened through March, one of its
best months in about four or five. Why
is this the most important driver for
markets right now?
>> Yeah, it's twofold. For all US
investors, going international has been
awesome in the last year. And really,
it's been a weaker dollar trade. this
whole dollar denom like the dollar's
going to fall off. The dollar uh
debasement trade was the most powerful
trade last year and in gold, silver and
non- US equities all loved it and really
if the dollar breaks out and every day
I'm just sitting here watching tick for
tick the the currency markets and the
currency markets are massive relative to
everything else but the dollar keeps
getting crushed right around 100 on the
DXY index. We're right there going into
the week. This week is going to be
pivotal for the oil oil market and the
currency market. And if really if you
can see oil reverse down, we think the
dollar goes down and that's more risk
on. But if the dollar breaks out here,
the whole dollar to basement trade,
gold, silver, non US equities are at
risk. In our view, we would pivot more
into US, look for good quality companies
that are cheaper valuations. Right now,
we're seeing that more in midcaps and
more infrastructure related equities to
play some defense on a dollar breakout
scenario.
>> Does that also change the attractiveness
of of the larger cap companies, the
multinational companies as we head into
earning season, Matt?
>> Exactly, Danny. And and we were just
saying that look, earnings estimates are
about as good as it gets right now. So,
any weakness that can come filter into
the markets uh could be a headwind to
these awesome earnings estimates, and
the dollar is a big part of that. So 40%
of S&P 500 revenues are denominated or
they're they're sourced abroad. And so
if a if you have a weaker currency
outside the United States, your currency
uh or sorry if the currencies are
strengthen abroad and your currency
weakens, then you get better foreign
revenues. That's almost just a you know
the the company doesn't have to do
anything. It just helps. Uh a weaker
dollar is hugely beneficial to corporate
revenues, corporate earnings. And really
that's been the the story of last year.
this year. And if you think about the
presidential cycle, we're going into
2018, similar to the 2016 to 2019 kind
of throwback or flashback, and that was
a stronger dollar period. Uh so we've
got to watch that closely for earnings
results, too.
>> Matt, how important are these this
week's inflation data going to be for
you given the sense that that is one of
the key questions, how much consumer
prices are heading up?
What we're hearing, Lisa, is not just
oil. Like, I mean, in the last, you
know, we're hearing the streaming
services are raising prices, and it's
like that's not because of higher oil
prices. Um, delivery companies, you
know, I mean, Amazon even has has just
increased a uh a tax, if you will, or an
increase based on uh the higher oil
prices. But we would look at higher oil
prices as a tax. Not as much of an
inflationary event. I get it. The
headline CPI is going to feel it because
of higher gas prices. But what everybody
missed last year in terms of the tariffs
was that one thing that goes up can make
other things go down because consumers
can't just use all that capital to spend
across the board. Things last week that
actually made us relatively positive on
the inflation backdrop. Housing prices
year-over-year uh declined or they were
still positive but only by 1%
year-over-year which is the lowest
reading as of late. Wage growth
non-existent. It was actually 3.5% and
that have really good jobs report. But
if you have lack of wage growth,
relatively weak housing price growth and
without that wage growth, higher gas
prices, that's just going to decrease
your real spending power. In our view,
that makes the Fed more likely to tilt
to the dovish side by the end of the
year than the hawkish side. Uh, and
inflation might not be as bad as feared
all things considered.
>> The bull case for bonds. Matt Mskin of
Manual Life, John Hancock Investments.
Thank you so much for being with us uh
as we begin a new week. Right now, let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere.
Here is your bloomer brief with Yahihara
anhara.
>> Hi, Lisa. Iran's foreign ministry saying
no rational person would agree to a
ceasefire because it means creating a
short pause to regroup and commit crime
again. The comments coming after Axios
reported the US, Iran, and a group of
regional mediators are reportedly
discussing terms for a possible 45day
ceasefire.
Japanese Prime Minister Sai Takahichi
says she's looking to hold talks with
Iran's leader before Pres President
Trump's latest deadline. Japan has a key
interest in maintaining a working
relationship with Iran. The country
secures 90% of its oil through the
streets of Hormuse. Hedge funds turning
bullish on wheat for the first time in
four years. Long positions on Chicago
wheat outnumbering short contracts by
over 8,500
in the last week of March. Hedge funds
are betting on higher prices due to dry
weather and fertilizer shortages. Dr.
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Up next, the morning
calls. Plus, Jason Thomas of Carile
saying the fundamentals in private
credit remain strong and talking about
what the backdrop is for inflation.
That's coming up next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
We did get a little bit oversold on a
short-term basis, which is why we think
the markets were able to rally, but we
expect volatility to continue because
there still is so much optimism that
this war will end quickly and it won't
have a big impact on growth. That was
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth
talking about what we have seen in
markets which Jim Zelter of Apollo
described as macro paralysis. This is
macro paralysis 2026 style. You are
seeing a bit of optimism but really it
is pretty minor in terms of the moves
that we're seeing across equity futures.
Last week was a big week for them. We
saw equities deliver their best week of
2026. Today trying to build on that in
the NASDAQ and Russell up about a third
of a percent. Meanwhile, when you take a
look at bonds, yields just a touch
higher ahead of the key inflation reads,
particularly at the front end. Two-year
uh two basis point increase to 3.86%
and that 30-year yield creeping up
toward that 5% level, 4.92%.
Meanwhile, in the crude space, we're
looking at the June contracts today
because that is the apples to apples and
we have been trying to explain why WTI
and crude have not been trading the
same. When you take a look at the
current contract because one is May and
one is June. Right now you're seeing
that the apples to apples. Brent crude
actually inflecting higher at 109 109
versus WTI down about 7/10en of a
percent at 9735
highlighting how different dynamics
really are driving uh the different
regions in terms of oil price. Time now
for the morning calls. First up, Missouo
cutting its price target on super micro
saying federal indictments and legal
controversies should shift orders to
Dell. Next up, Goldman Sachs upgrading
Netflix to buy ahead of the company's
earnings later this month. The analyst
seeing a healthy backdrop for
advertising. Those shares up 1.8% maybe
also because they are charging more. And
actually continuing with the
subscriptions. And finally, Bank of
America lowering its price target on
Blue Owl saying no companies in the
group of asset managers are positioned
for strong first quarter results. Let's
stick with that. Blue Owl the latest
limiting withdrawals adding a fresh
layer of stress to the sector. JP Morgan
CEO Jamie Diamond telling shareholders
private credit credit quote probably
does not pose a systemic risk but warns
losses will be greater than expected.
Jason Thomas of Carile writing the
following. Stepping back from the
headlines. The fundamentals in private
credit remain strong. Jason joins us
now. Jason wonderful to get you on to
talk about private credit and a host of
other issues that we're dealing with.
Starting with that, fundamentals may be
strong, but this region, this area has
not been tested through a credit cycle
and is experiencing outflows. Do you
expect the losses to be more significant
than some people expect?
Jason, I think that we've lost your
line. We'll try it again. But that
really is the key question, right?
That's what Jamie Diamond Danny is
talking about. that losses are likely to
be more significant even if it isn't
some sort of systemic crisis. The
>> the argument that Jamie Diamond makes in
this annual letter is essentially just
that underwriting standards have been
very weak and that we're going through a
period in after 21 and 2022 where there
was this frenzy around private credit
that more people were deploying capital
and they were doing so with the sake of
maybe better and stronger covenants. Uh
I talked to Oak Tree's co-CEO Armen uh
Panacean last week too who also said
that the retail money going in also
caused a weakening of underwriting
standards. So maybe the entirety of the
asset class is strong. But I think there
are some real concerns about there. Were
there bad deals being done? If these
companies go bankrupt, is it going to be
more difficult to recover some of the
money leaving investors not getting the
full promise of what they expected for
private credit? It's probably all we
would be talking about if it weren't for
all the other geopolitical issues and
questions around just whether some of
the uh fundamental valuation uh
understandings have changed. That said,
a question here of whether we have seen
a credit cycle going back to 2009 in any
material way and the broader credit
markets and how well poised or not they
are to deal with actually a downturn in
some sort of growth or growth that is
subtrend subpar. And that I think might
be the key question going forward. I was
struck by this Fed report that came out
last week that talked about how if you
take a look at the fact the population
has shrunk for the first time going back
to the 1950s, you actually are looking
at a break even rate about 10,000 jobs a
month, it could be even negative, but it
means much slower growth. If you have
slower growth and you've got companies
with levered financial uh with levered
uh structures, how much does that create
a real issue? It's gets to kind of like
this promise of AI that everyone is
hoping that we get a productivity boost
from the technology coming in that saves
us from this. But that in itself has
this irony underlaid within it that if
we do fully realize the promise of AI
that it helps with American growth
because of the weakness because of the
issues in the labor market. This is
something Jamon Jamie Diamond points to
too that there are going to be changes
from the labor market that in his words
it will definitely eliminate some jobs.
He goes on to say that we're looking at
definitive plans how we can support and
redeploy our affected workforce, but it
is real time issues that companies are
grappling with of maybe margins that are
looking more painful and can you deploy
technology to fix that? How does that
play into this labor market? Can there
be hiring as robust as it once was when
you have a lesser population and
different technology that affects what's
needed?
>> To me, it's just the sort of
multi-actors that are coming together in
kind of a mush. On one hand, it's the
investment in AI that needs to pay off,
right? It needs to pay off for the cycle
to continue. On the flip side, there are
questions about true funding stress that
we have not seen yet, but that could be
coming and that we might be seeing
pockets in the likes of Blue Owl. Jason
Thomas, I think we have back online
after a power issue. I am so sorry about
that. Jason, thank you for being with
us. Do you see uh the potential losses
in private credit as more significant
than people expect even without some
sort of true systemic systemic risk?
>> No, no, I don't. Um but but I think that
the the systemic risk point is is
perhaps most significant here. uh in in
terms of uh the misperceptions that
exist. Uh these are structures that
essentially grew after the global
financial crisis precisely because the
liability structures are so durable. You
know that there was great comfort taken
in regulators. Moving risk out of a
financial system that banking that
largely has runnable liabilities
depending on deposits, depending on
wholesale finance, depending on repos,
money markets, and moving it to balance
sheets uh where you have much more paid
in capital. There's of course three to
five times as much equity capital
backing loans and then also of course
longerterm liabilities, the leverage
that's taken on uh by private credit
funds, direct lenders, again relatively
modest uh but also it has maturities
that generally extend beyond the
maturities of the loans that are held on
the asset side of the balance sheet. So
again, very durable structures. I think
that the right now you have default
rates that are running in about two and
a quarter percent range, maybe two and a
half percent. So again, this this is an
area where they've ticked up very
modestly. Um but but I think it's it's
nowhere near the discussion. You know,
the the amount of attention that it's
getting just feels disproportionate to
me at this point. Jason, has that become
actionable in the sense that have you
seen assets in the private credit space
that are being sold at a discount or is
this just histrionic rhetoric that isn't
really transpiring through a market
revaluation?
>> I I think you know it's important again
to think about we're talking about whole
loans. You know, these are non-traded
assets.
So really what's what this is comparable
to is of course whole loans on bank
balance sheets
uh for JP Morgan for for instance has
about $350 billion of CNI loans
commercial industrial loans no one would
think that JP Morgan can liquidate that
portfolio or a large portion of it in a
relatively short period of time without
discounts to the carrying value of those
assets. So again when you have
non-traded assets it it generally takes
time to underwrite that there there's an
illquidity of course there needs to be
an ill liquidity premium for investors
uh that that with exposure to these
assets but you know when when you talk
about discounts uh of course a
non-traded illquid assets that there's
there's going to be some discount if
they have to be liquidated quickly and
that's precisely why you have these
durable liability structures uh that
that that mean that these assets assets
do not need to be liquid liquidated.
They can be held to maturity.
>> Jason, the the broader credit markets
though, it was a painful February.
That's been reflected in some of the BDC
earnings, but leverage loan markets had
a very painful month too. And a lot of
that has been uh attributed to what
happened with software companies. I
wonder if you can make the parallel, if
you do, at some people do to 2014 with
energy companies as you started to see
defaults pile up from them. Could you
see a repeat with a different flavor of
something coming from software companies
that maybe not fully forces a credit
cycle but at least does introduce more
pain into the system?
>> I I think so. It's interesting. We we've
um of course look through our portfolio.
We have about 293 companies and and not
much software exposure. It's it's very
minimal. But but to talk to those
companies CTO's to the CIOS to look at
how they're spending on information
services on software to look at how
they're embracing AI of course AI
strategies moving out to the front of
the techn technological frontier is very
important and to understand you know how
they're spending and how software may be
disintermediated. So, so this has been
an area of focus and I do think at this
stage some of the AI disintermediation
is overstated. I do think at greater
risk right now is consultants
uh and and I think that that when you
look when you see how they're trying to
spend on AI and integrate it into
workflows, it could be that software
becomes a key distribution channel uh
for for some of the frontier AI models.
I think pricing is is going to be under
pressure certainly. I think that the
economics of software may change because
uh now all of a sudden you have to deal
with compute and inference costs. Of
course many software platforms had been
predicated on the idea of zero marginal
costs. So so there there could be uh
some material changes there. And then I
think also when you look back to how
richly valued the software sector was,
people talk very often about terminal
values in software. Well, why is that?
It's because there's so little cash
generation for many of these businesses
today. So, so it's really the free cash
flow from these these businesses is
arriving further into the future which
of course makes it more sensitized to
again terminal values or expectations 5
years 10 years forward. So again I I I
don't think that one can just say that
there's nothing to see here. Um but but
at this stage I I do think that that
some of the talk about total
disintermediation is really overstated
and it's not consistent with the way
that uh CIOS CTO's are actually
integrating AI uh into their businesses
at the moment.
>> Jason Thomas of Carile. Thank you. And
next time we'll have you on for longer.
Coming up Kathy Bastanic of Nationwide
looking ahead to this week's inflation
report. Plus Yahand with your morning
movers with Selena shares rising in the
pre-market.
looking at an effort to have another
risk on week. We're starting off on at
least a green footing, although just
we're seeing S&P futures higher by about
well less than a percent. Yeah, less
than a tenth of a percent, but you are
seeing a bigger rally staging in the
NASDAQ and the Russell 2000 futures. If
you take a look at the bond board, you
take a look at twos, tens, and 30s.
anticipation that we're going to get
hotter than expected inflation data.
This makes sense based on just the
inputs from gasoline as well as diesel.
If you take a look at tier yields at
3.86%
Danny, I was taking a look at the lows
this year. It was uh a good 50 basis
points less, 3.37%
just as recently as February 27th. And
that point we were talking about how
many cuts the Fed could execute. Now
we're talking about how long they're
going to remain on hold and whether this
is a Fed funds rate that we all have to
get used to.
>> Yeah. I mean, it is no pricing of cuts
in at the moment for the rest of the
year. At one point, there were a couple
bets on the market that we would get
hikes. That's been taken out as we're
expected. That's the Fed that's going to
do nothing. But for the bond market,
what is the driver? What is in the
driving seat at the moment? Is it the
price of oil? Is that what dictates
things? Is it the rhetoric coming from
the president? Is it the rhetoric coming
from the Iranian officials? Is it going
to be the CPI data we get this week?
There's a lot to choose from. And I have
to say, Lisa, it's not incredibly clear
about what the most important uh impact
is for the market.
>> Morgan Stanley put out a great report
talking about how if you have oil prices
that revert back to where they were
before this uh situation, then you end
up in a situation where the Fed can look
at potentially uh cutting rates again.
You could go back to the way it was. If
you have uh oil prices that remain where
they are currently and if you take a
look at the Brent contract as well as
the WTI contract for the month of June
about $108 on Brent about uh $97 for WTI
that is the worst case scenario for a
lot of the central banks because they
are going to be forced on some level to
even think about hiking rates and
certainly not be on hold for the
foreseeable future. That is the
stagflationary like mix that they don't
want to see. That's part of the reason
why I find slightly frustrating the
conversation of saying all of this
matters is duration. We already have the
duration. This has been going on for
more than a month now. And we've heard
from OPEC on Friday saying that even if
the war to end, it would take months to
get the energy infrastructure back
online. The duration has happened. Is
that fully priced into markets at this
moment? And to your point, it vastly
impacts what inflation looks like, how
the consumer behaves, and thus what the
Fed does. Well, it is a market of
individual stocks and those individual
stocks are doing some interesting
things. One hour away from the cash
open. Here are your morning movers. The
hyra on antihira.
>> Hi Lisa. Yes, we stock with we start
with the chemical stocks. Um Dow down 3%
in the pre-market after getting a
downgrade from analysts over at Bank of
America. They're saying that the recent
rally of chemical stocks tied to the
Iran conflict and higher oil prices
looks unsustainable and that upside is
likely peaking this quarter as
fundamentals start to come into focus.
Uh moving on to Echoar, those shares up
uh 4/10en of a percent up uh on track
for 4 days of gains on SpaceX's
ambitions to target a $2 trillion
valuation in its IPO. Uh, Echoar holds a
stake in SpaceX. Plus, they're
partnering on several commercial deals
for things like Spectrum. So, as that
valuation rises, investors betting that
this name could also benefit. And we end
on Seno. Those shares up 32% in the
pre-market. Amid all this talk about
market paralysis, it looks like deals
are still getting done. Neuro uh
Neurocrine Biosciences agreeing to buy
Seleno to gain exposure to treatments
for rare diseases. The company agreeing
to be bought for $2.9 billion, a price
well above where shares were last
trading last week. Lisa,
>> thank you so much and thank you so much
for this morning. A slew of economic
data out this week. Bloomberg's Endur
joins us now. We've got of course PCE as
well as personal income and spending on
Thursday, CPI on Friday. Why is this
week so important when it comes to some
of these indicators?
>> Well, it's inflation weekly. So, I mean,
as you mentioned, we get the uh headline
CPI data and the core CPI data on
Friday, which will give us the first
look at the inflationary impact uh
during the month of March from the war
in Iran. Economists are talking about a
1% increase there, which would actually
be the biggest increase in headline CPI
since the middle of 2022. So, if those
numbers come through, that will
certainly turn a few heads. core CPI
when you strip out energy as well that
will also expected to nudge higher to
maybe around 0.3%. And as you mentioned
even before that we get what's
considered to be the Fed's preferred way
of looking at inflation. It's called a
core PCE reading that comes in for the
month of February which is expected to
show an increase of 0.4%
meaning that inflation was already
proving to be proven to be a bit sticky
in the month of February ahead of what
happened in March. So I think once we
get through all of the numbers this
week, the headline takeaway is going to
be that inflation is back in the system.
We know that because of what's happening
fuel and commodity prices. It will then
become a question of how longasting that
inflation will be and of course what
policy makers do in response to that.
>> And uh just quickly here, we get ISM
services data coming out later this
morning at 10 a.m. Eastern. I find that
interesting after what we got last week
with S&P Global and the services
indicator. They're actually coming in
significantly lighter than expected. How
important is it to see uh whether
services follows manufacturing in terms
of the ongoing expansion?
>> It'll be very interesting to see Lisa if
that trend does emerge. In fact, I mean
I think the manufacturing numbers were
surprising last week suggesting strength
in that sector and it speaks to the idea
that there is growth in the economy. The
broader economy is holding up. We saw
that in the labor market, Lisa, but
that's why the focus right now is all
about inflation and these numbers this
week are so important in terms of what's
going to happen consumer demand and the
policy response in in the months ahead.
>> And occurring, thank you so much for
being with us. We'll be catching up with
you throughout the week. Uh meanwhile,
investors are waiting the first read of
inflation since the start of the war as
last week's payrolls report keeps the
Fed on hold. Our view towards the end of
the year is that we'll see the Fed move
to another rate cut, but this is
predicated on the idea of better
productivity and that this is a
shortlasting hit to oil prices that
eventually comes down. We'd have to see
some weakness start to emerge. Look at
that unemployment rate for an indicator,
but for right now, I think the Fed is
just content to hold where they are and
let the data tell them where they go
next. Wall Street estimates calling for
Friday's CPI print to show the sharpest
one-mon advance since 2022.
Kathy Bastansic of Nationwide writing,
"We expect headline CPI to surge one and
a half% in March, driven by a 20%
seasonally adjusted increase in gasoline
prices." Kathy joins us now. Kathy,
great to see you. Normally people say,
"Well, CPI doesn't matter that much
because the Fed looks through it." Why
is this time different?
>> Yeah, good morning, Lisa. Well, it it
matters because it's the size of the
increase, right? And um as you
indicated, this is potentially the
largest increase since we saw, you know,
mid 2022. And we are on the high end of
uh the Bloomberg consensus looking for
one and a half%. Um we think that
persists even through April and you
could probably get headline CPI uh
approaching 5% um just by April. But the
key really for us and I think the
markets is that it is temporary and then
it starts to ease as the year
progresses. That's also our forecast. Um
we'll see how things play out, right,
with oil and gasoline prices. But you
know, no doubt this is a big hit um to
consumers and households and businesses,
right? It's not just gasoline, but it's
diesel costs. And what we think is
there's actually going to be slower
economic growth in the second quarter.
um and probably even the third quarter
than we previously thought.
>> Does that mean that the market is
underpricing the likelihood that the Fed
might cut this year? Kathy,
I
>> I think so. Um but it is a tough call,
right? Um there there are a lot of uh
factors hitting the market all at once,
right? You've got the inflationary
impulse, but I think it yet the market
may be underappreciating uh the drag on
on economic activity. And you know, if
we're correct in inflation eases in the
second half of the year, particularly
the fourth quarter, you know, that gives
the Fed room, I think, to to still um
consider interest rate cuts. And and for
now, we're holding on to two rate cuts.
Um it's quite possible they only do one,
but I think it's premature at this point
to remove that completely from the
table. Typically, Fed officials do look
through inflation shocks, oil shocks,
and look at the its attacks on on the
economy. One thing though that also
helped remove the idea of cuts was
Friday's data. Kathy, a jobs market that
added 178,000, the most since December
2024. What did you make of it?
>> Well, I think it was a solid number
overall. You know, certainly not just
the monthly read, but the fact that we
we see the three-month moving average
both for for overall payrolls and
particularly private payrolls running,
you know, around 70,000. That's very
solid. Um, but I think there it's still
kind of this fragile balance in the
labor market. Um, I wouldn't be
surprised in the coming months if
employers get a little bit more cautious
about hiring because of the uncertainty
of the war's impact on the economy. Um,
doesn't mean they're going to resort to
layoffs. I think we continue in this no
fire environment. Jobless claims are
very low, but they could pull back a
little bit on the hiring reigns. Um, and
that could still persuade again if
inflation comes down lower. Fed has
admitted they think interest rates are
um restrictive, you know, prior to the
war. Still gives them room to to
consider rate cuts.
>> Kathy, this has got to be one of the
most complicated times ever to come up
with an economic projection. Is there
any historic analog for you that gives a
sense of just how uncertain not only the
economic data is, but the parameters
with which to look them look at them
through?
>> Well, we we do. Yeah, I mean great
question and great great point. I mean
we do look back at at previous you know
um oil shocks and and increases in
gasoline prices particularly and you can
even just look at the Ukraine Russia war
when it started to see the impact it had
on inflation. Um it's not the same
economic environment though there we
were really in kind of the recovery
portion of COVID this time is a little
different. Um we use you know rely on
economic models and and really you know
for the very near term that's where we
have a little bit more conviction is if
you boost gasoline prices like that's
just a one for one hit on household you
know budgets and that means they should
pull back in discretionary spending
elsewhere and that's why we look for for
a little slowdown thereafter. It is
going to depend on on the outcome of
this what happens with straight hormuz
and what happens with energy supplies. I
guess uh when I was looking through the
data this weekend, I was thinking to
myself, okay, on one hand, you could
talk about geopolitics and get, you
know, really concerned and start
wondering how high can oil prices go.
And then you take a look at oil uh AI
investment and you take a look at some
of these uh productivity boosters that
could potentially offset all of this and
then some and that has been the driver
for a lot of the economic growth anyway.
So, how do you pair these two ideas, the
sort of historic model of what happens
when you get an increase to oil prices
and what an offset it is when you see AI
investment that continues to rise at
really increasing prices.
>> All all important uh points there. And
and I should add while we're downgrading
second quarter growth and maybe third
quarter a little bit, giving a haircut,
we still think for the full year, Q4 of
Q4, we can attain 2% GDP growth. So
we're not overly bearish on the economy.
Um as you said productivity growth is
strong. It's running trend right now is
running at least 2 and a.5% AI
investment and the eventual
productivities gains there could push
productivity even higher. AI investment
at least domestically the direct input
adds 610 to GDP growth. you get some
offset from the imports of AI related
products but still this is quite you
know good bedrock for the economy and I
think that along with fiscal stimulus
right the tax refunds unfortunately I
think the higher gasoline prices pretty
much offset the increase in tax refunds
from last year but without that it would
be a bigger hit to to households so you
have that um a little bit of buffer as
well
>> Kathy Mansic of Nationwide thank you so
much for being with us and good luck
throughout the week as we continue to
get economic data. I mean, this has been
the complication, Danny. On one hand,
you've got an increase in oil prices,
oh, inflationary hit, and then you have,
you know, going bananas over here on the
left, the AI spending and all the
capital markets activity. It just, you
know, again, how do you find a historic
paral parallel to this moment given the
fact that there are some uh historic
aspects to this backdrop,
>> right? I mean, other, you know,
conflicts in the market also maybe
didn't have as long as an oil impact as
this did. if you are now looking at in
Iran who can control the straight of
hormones. But it is such a good point.
There is still so much spending. All of
the hyperscalers are still putting so
much money into this project. They're
all still issuing debt that we're all
still buying. Companies are still
merging together. And that's why you
have this ability typically of risk
assets that just keep looking past this.
And let's be honest, it is the PTSD of
conflicts past where people tried to
sell, they tried to go short, and they
were hurt because these markets just
find a reason to rally
>> right now. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your Bloomberg brief with the Anna
Deihara.
>> Hi, Lisa. US forces rescued an airman
from a mountainous area in Iran after
his fighter jet was shot down. President
Trump hailing the dramatic operation
where the US deployed dozens of aircraft
to retrieve the injured crew member. It
came just one day after the rescue of a
second person from the same jet.
In entertainment, the Super Mario Galaxy
movie scoring the biggest opening of the
year. Variety reporting the animated
sequel brought in $372.5
million globally. It helped boost AMC
entertainment to its best ever 5-day
Easter weekend at the box office. Shares
are up 1.5%.
And in sports, UCLA won its first ever
Women's March Madness title after
blowing out South Carolina 79-
51. The Bruins never trailed in the game
with center Lauren Betts winning
tournament MVP. The men's tournament
wraps up tonight with the Yukon Huskies
taking on the Michigan Wolverines.
That's your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Yahara. Up next,
setting you up for the day ahead. Plus,
Kayla Cedar of State Street Global
Markets with stocks trying to eek out
gains for a fourth straight day after
last week having the best week going
back to November of 2025. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
The systemic risk point is is perhaps
most significant here. Uh it in in terms
of uh the misperceptions that exist.
It's it's nowhere near the discussion.
You know, the the amount of attention
that it's getting just feels
disproportionate to me at this point
>> and it would probably be a lot more
should it not be for the conflict in the
Middle East. So that was Jason Thomas of
Carile talking about how there still is
fundamental strength in private credit.
This would be the main story over the
past couple of months if it hadn't been
for attention directed elsewhere. Right
now in markets, direction is attention
is focused on a potential ceasefire or
at least discussions that could lead
somewhere positive. That at least is the
tone from futures that are higher by
about 210 of a percent in S&P about a
half a percent on the NASDAQ and
Russell. You can see in the bond space
preparing for a hotter than expected
inflation read at least on the front end
of the yield curve. This is the yield
curves uh flattening that people have
been expecting. You have a one basis
point increase at the front end.
Two-year yields now at 3.85%.
But you're seeing a bit of a bid into
the 10-year and the 30-year space as
people take a look at the potential pit
to growth that could come on the heels
of oil price increases. And in the crude
and WTI space, what you are seeing is a
bit of uh calm, a bit of decline across
the board. More so though, WTI, we're
looking at futures for the June
contract. We're seeing a 1.3% decline
for WTI at $96.74.
Counting down to the opening bell.
Here's a trading diary for the week
ahead. At 10 a.m. Eastern, ISM services
at 1 p.m. President Trump holding a
press conference. Wednesday, we get
results from Delta and we get Fed
Minutes. On Thursday, we get another
round of jobless claims and the PCE
report. On Friday, both the CPI and the
UN University of Michigan consumer
sentiment survey watch the inflation
expectations there. Stocks looking
potentially for a fourth consecutive day
of gains as uncertainty looms. Kayla
Cedar of State Street writing,
"Institutional investors continue to
show caution, not panic." Echoing a
market that has shown resilience in the
face of geopolitical and economic
unusualness. Kayla joins us now.
Unusualness is a great word to describe
what we are seeing right now. How much
are you looking at some of the earnings
expectations from companies across Wall
Street seeing them increase and taking
them seriously for face value and not
saying well it's asterisked based on the
unusual circumstances?
>> Yeah. Well, first off thank you so much
for having me. You know I think earnings
could be something that helps propel
propel equities a little higher here. uh
expectations are high but when we look
at how institutional investors are
preparing ahead of earning season we
still see a lot of demand for the AI
trend. So if we look at where positions
were at the beginning of the conflict to
where they are now there's really two
places where institutional investors
have increased their exposure. The first
is tech and especially that semisc
hardware area. I'll get to software in a
moment, but the second place we also saw
a big increase in demand was energy.
Now, flipping back to that software side
of things, we saw a huge unwind at the
beginning of this year. And we have
started to see signs that that unwind
could be over. And so, bringing it back
to those earnings expectations, we still
see opportunity for this AI trade to
continue. And I think that will really
help dominate this earnings story in the
US. Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley came
out saying that uh he believes that the
S&P 500 is carving out a new low and
that it makes sense to start adding
length in cyclical and quality growth
trades. Quality could be construed as
the technology cyclical an interesting
one given the potential hit to uh
consumer spending coming from oil
prices. Do you see momentum behind some
of the consumer cyclical sectors?
>> You know, I would be careful here. I
think sticking with quality is the most
important thing right now and that does
apply to the tech part of the equation
where right now we see a lot of demand
for high quality and that really isn't
something that's new. The reason why
it's important to stick with that is
because when we look at the expectations
for interest rates we have seen quite a
shift and so we want to stick with parts
of the market that are more interest
rate insensitive. So I think when we
look at that cyclical uh portion of the
market sticking with tech makes sense.
Uh you still see some opportunity within
energy within the consumer space. It's
interesting because we do see a lot of
demand or growing demand for places like
airlines. So certainly consumer demand
or a consumer exposure there. But other
parts of discretionary I would be
cautious with especially because if oil
prices continue to rise, you could see
decreased demand eventually, but you
could also see margin uh margin
compression as well. So I would be
selective.
>> Kayla, to what degree does a stronger
dollar make an impact? We're talking
with Matt Mskin of John Hancock earlier
in the show who pointed out it was the
dollar's strongest month last month
since summer of 2025.
Does that start to eat away at the
attractiveness of some of the big
multinational companies in their shares
in the US?
>> You know, I think overall the
fundamentals of US companies continue to
outperform. So, I'm not entirely uh
worried about that, especially given,
you know, the potential hits to growth
elsewhere, thinking Europe. So, so far
when we look at the reaction to the
conflict with Iran, we've seen real
money investors shift away from Europe.
So, that's a reversal of what we saw
last year and that does correlate with
what we've seen in terms of an upside in
the in the dollar and I would expect
that to continue. So, for example, when
we look at what's driving the dollar,
we've seen an adjustment in hedge
ratios. So less demand to hedge against
dollar strength, expecting continued
dollar strength and that hasn't really
dampened demand for for the US. So yes,
there is risk if you the dollar
strengthens so much that it's actually a
negative for these companies that rely
on demand elsewhere outside of the US,
but so far it looks like it hasn't
hindered the safe haven aspect of US
companies. So I would expect that to
continue. Kayla, what would it take to
revive the rest of world trade to make
other things the uh other other
countries besides the US become the most
attractive trade like it was last year?
Or does another repeat of an energy
crisis of the exposed vulnerabilities of
getting energy through the Middle East
in the street of Hormuse? Does that do
permanent damage to the rotation that
had been popular last year?
>> That's a great question. I think
positioning ties into that very closely
because it's easy to say nothing's
permanent. Anything can change. With
that said, when we look at specifically
more institutional investors, it's very
rare that they would go overweight
somewhere like Europe. And what we saw
last year was more of a closing of the
underweight, not so much a big shift to
overweight positioning. And right now,
we're about neutral. And so, or a little
below neutral, actually. And so I think
there's a lot of fundamental reason for
that continue. Earnings are relatively
weaker, margins are slimmer and there's
a lot more uncertainty and yes that
uncertainty could decrease but you know
when we look at the fundamentals they
were weaker to begin with and so I think
you know the underlying shift to the US
and a reversal of last year's trade uh
makes a lot of sense here.
>> Kayla Cedaro State Street Global Markets
thank you so much. Coming up tomorrow,
we're going to continue the conversation
with Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan, Kate
Moore of City Wealth, Jorge Leon of
Ricestead, and the New York Fed
President, John Williams. Danny, it was
so much fun. Let's do it again tomorrow
as we try to understand whether we're
geopolitical analysts or whether we're
focused on markets.
>> Good luck to us. See you tomorrow, Lisa.
>> See you tomorrow. That was Bloomberg
surveillance to start off your week.
Good morning.